Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "I think I've done a lot in my life"

The Overall Story of "I think I've done a lot in my life" takes place in the Fixed Attitude Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with a fixed attitude or outlook.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Innermost Desires.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with a fixed attitude or outlook pertaining to Innermost Desires.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Innermost Desires with Hope while others respond with Dream.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Innermost Desires with Hope or Dream by illustrating their effects on Closure and Denial.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," some see Control as causing the problem and Uncontrolled as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Feeling is at the heart of the problem and Logic will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Hope vs. Dream as an approach with Uncontrolled or Logic as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," Dream is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life" this Inhibitor is Obligation.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Innermost Desires, Dream and Obligation provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses.

In summary, the Overall problem in "I think I've done a lot in my life" resides in a fixed attitude or outlook:

Sovereignty was succesfully build by facing challenges and taking on one's responsibilities. Even though, in the cases of Heinrich Peyer and Josef Morel this strategy failed. The reasons were not given, but it seemed that their attitude to give up too early could have had played a role.

...pertaining to Innermost Desires:

The players share a desire to "do something" (leisten). Katharina Morel explained that she was driven to be active even though she was convinced that she had actually already done sufficiently. This indicates that, at least in her case, activity was not necessarily a strategy to become somebody or achieve reputation but was rather associated to a psychological or noetic need. The interpretation of the story here assumed that it was the noetic need to overcome "death", as a way to engage personally with the eternal sphere or personal life. The serving to God was foremost an acting in line with his commandments.

Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Innermost Desires, they differ in approach:  some responding with Hope:

Katharina Morel's letter to her relatives how hope finally was fulfilled: "I am my own master, nobody gives orders to me, I am loved and respected in my home and by my friends and acquaintances, but my sphere of activity is extended too far for my old age ... [Ich bin selber Meister, niemand befielt mir, ich bin geliebt und geachtet im Hause und von meinen Freunden und Bekannten, nur ist mein Wirkungskreis zu weit ausgedehnt für meine alten Tage) ... (p. 44)» 

...and others with Dream:

One of the messages that could be read in Katharina Morel's dairy was that one had sometimes to give up a dream and should never make ethical trade-off's in order to achieve it. By this, finally the true destiny would be fulfilled. 

The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Hope and Dream:

The hope or faith in the value of life beyond all circumstances was better than a personal dream that would drive one forward.

The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Closure and Denial.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Control as the problem:

Sovereignty was the true motivation of Katharina Morel beyond the desire to build a home. The changeability and ephemeral of life was the challenge that she had to master in order to achieve this goal.

...and Uncontrolled the best solution:

Katharina Morel's faith helped her to give up the control of the circumstances and to accept her limitations in order to embark in a new adventure again and again.

...others find Feeling at the heart of the problem:

Even though Sprenger-Viol emphasized the rational and active character of Katharina Morel, the story gave not much hints about the reasoning that led to the conclusions Katharina Morel took. Rather it is read as a story of constant frustrations through circumstances which were overcome through a faithful and hopeful nature. Most of Katharina Morel's activities were not driven by some personal ambition except perhaps her investment in the Theater of Luzern during her marriage with Josef Morel and her whitework commerce at the Schweizerhof. Most of her activites were driven by facing the immediate needs created by the circumstances and the care for her family and friends.

...and Logic the best way to resolve it:

The problem for most of the players was the changing situation in which their current social position was either threatend by losing sustain or inspired by new opportunities.  They all try to adapt through learning and adopting new skills or new attitudes, not always with the same succesful outcome. The overal logic of the story was that external changes claim for a change in attitude, but this aspect came not clearly out by Sprenger-Viol who described Katharina Morel's character rather as steadfest.

These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Dream:

According Sprenger-Viol, Katharina Morel's dream to have a home was the driver of the story.

...and held back by Obligation:

Katharina Morel's felt duties as a wife impeded her to build this home and have kids when she was young. The illenss of her husband and the soon death deterred her again, back to Luzern. The family duties of her second husband hindered her to inherit his business and to settle in the position he had given her. 
Sprenger-Viol explained the impediments rather by the "strokes of fate [Schicksalsschläge)" than by obligation (p. 54). 

...while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses:

Katharina Morel had according Sprenger-Viol a strong impulse to build a home. A desire which was impeded over and over again. Instead of dispearing, the limitations of life motivated Katharina Morel to become aware of her other abilities and unorthodox opportunities in which she could live her inclinations, mothering the soldiers, the wounded on the field, caring for her foster daughter and giving young women a formation in the restauration business.


______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for I think I've done a lot in my life.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Overall Story Throughline:  Sovereignty was succesfully build by facing challenges and taking on one's responsibilities. Even though, in the cases of Heinrich Peyer and Josef Morel this strategy failed. The reasons were not given, but it seemed that their attitude to give up too early could have had played a role.

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Concern:  The players share a desire to "do something" (leisten). Katharina Morel explained that she was driven to be active even though she was convinced that she had actually already done sufficiently. This indicates that, at least in her case, activity was not necessarily a strategy to become somebody or achieve reputation but was rather associated to a psychological or noetic need. The interpretation of the story here assumed that it was the noetic need to overcome "death", as a way to engage personally with the eternal sphere or personal life. The serving to God was foremost an acting in line with his commandments.

"Hope" as the Overall Story Issue:  Katharina Morel's letter to her relatives how hope finally was fulfilled: "I am my own master, nobody gives orders to me, I am loved and respected in my home and by my friends and acquaintances, but my sphere of activity is extended too far for my old age ... [Ich bin selber Meister, niemand befielt mir, ich bin geliebt und geachtet im Hause und von meinen Freunden und Bekannten, nur ist mein Wirkungskreis zu weit ausgedehnt für meine alten Tage) ... (p. 44)» 

"Control" as the Overall Story Problem:  Sovereignty was the true motivation of Katharina Morel beyond the desire to build a home. The changeability and ephemeral of life was the challenge that she had to master in order to achieve this goal.

"Uncontrolled" as the Overall Story Solution:  Katharina Morel's faith helped her to give up the control of the circumstances and to accept her limitations in order to embark in a new adventure again and again.

"Feeling" as the Overall Story Symptom:  Even though Sprenger-Viol emphasized the rational and active character of Katharina Morel, the story gave not much hints about the reasoning that led to the conclusions Katharina Morel took. Rather it is read as a story of constant frustrations through circumstances which were overcome through a faithful and hopeful nature. Most of Katharina Morel's activities were not driven by some personal ambition except perhaps her investment in the Theater of Luzern during her marriage with Josef Morel and her whitework commerce at the Schweizerhof. Most of her activites were driven by facing the immediate needs created by the circumstances and the care for her family and friends.

"Logic" as the Overall Story Response:  The problem for most of the players was the changing situation in which their current social position was either threatend by losing sustain or inspired by new opportunities.  They all try to adapt through learning and adopting new skills or new attitudes, not always with the same succesful outcome. The overal logic of the story was that external changes claim for a change in attitude, but this aspect came not clearly out by Sprenger-Viol who described Katharina Morel's character rather as steadfest.

"Dream" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  According Sprenger-Viol, Katharina Morel's dream to have a home was the driver of the story.

"Obligation" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  Katharina Morel's felt duties as a wife impeded her to build this home and have kids when she was young. The illenss of her husband and the soon death deterred her again, back to Luzern. The family duties of her second husband hindered her to inherit his business and to settle in the position he had given her. 
Sprenger-Viol explained the impediments rather by the "strokes of fate [Schicksalsschläge)" than by obligation (p. 54). 

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  Katharina Morel had according Sprenger-Viol a strong impulse to build a home. A desire which was impeded over and over again. Instead of dispearing, the limitations of life motivated Katharina Morel to become aware of her other abilities and unorthodox opportunities in which she could live her inclinations, mothering the soldiers, the wounded on the field, caring for her foster daughter and giving young women a formation in the restauration business.





Additional Overall Story Illustrations for I think I've done a lot in my life.



"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Goal:  Katharina Morel's innermost desire was described as the achievement of sovereignty.

"The Future" as the Overall Story Consequence:  Had Katharina Morel not achieved that goal she would not have become a "historically relevant" person in the traditional sense and would not serve as a role model up to current days. She would certainly not have had her picture exposed at the Central Library of Luzern.

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Cost:  The price for remaining steadfast on her way was possibly to renounce the dream of a traditional family and a classical femal role as mother and housekeeper.

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Dividend:  The redefinition of her femal role opened her the way to a unparalleled carreer.

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Requirement:  A stable psychological condition and a friendly character were important requirements for Katharina Morel to support others when needed and to maintain lifelong friendship networks. Further, she had extraordinary organizational and leadership skills which enabled her to take on new responsibilities and grow in her role beyond her original situation and position.

"How Things are Changing" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  Katharina Morel had to work early in her fathers inn and was forced to take on responsibilities very early when her mother died. This prepared for futur challenges. In a certain sense it could be observed how each step prepared her for the next and she took on ever more responsibilties in a more and more independent way.

"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  The changing sociopolitical environment inspired to redefine roles and to take on new adventures.

"Doing" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  Sprenge-Viol's biography described Katharina Morel's doing always successful which shaped the idea that as long as she would keep doing things would finally turn out well.






Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "I think I've done a lot in my life"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Katharina Morel and Death, these value judgments center on Delay:

Death tried to deter the fulfilment of Katharina Morel's heart desire to have a home since she was 10 years old and her mother died. But finally, in 1856 at the age of 66, she vinces Death and finds the sovereignty, the home and the role she aspired for.

The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," this alternative value standard examines Choice:

Katharina Morel had an extraordinary talent to make the choices that benefited her personal growth and brought her finally where she wanted to stay.
Nothing was known from Sprenger-Viol about Katharia Morel's reasons for not having children. Perhaps she or her husband were infertile. In any case, the question was, what had happend if she had remained at home? She could have visited Heinrich in Marseille and later returned. Could she? Had she become pregnant and build a home were to return for Heinrich? Had he survived without her? Perhaps, he had not gone to the Russian campaign, if she had not accompagnied her. He was not forced to accept the order. When Heirich Peyer and Katharina returned from the mercenary service they leased an inn "Rössli". This was rather Katharina Morel's metier than that of her husband. They could have returned to the saddler business or joined Heinrich's brother. Probabely, by this time Heinrich was already too ill. Nothing was said about this. It was the continuety of Katharina Morel's restauration business she had already started during the mercenary service in Marseille, the Russian campaign and in Maastrich and Bergen op Zoom in the "Haus Peyer".
When she married to Josef Morel in 1838, at the age of 48, she was definitly to old for a child. 


Conflicts occur between Katharina Morel and Death in regards to the relative value of Delay vs. Choice:

Finally, all the limitations of life could not stop Katharina Morel to overcome death and become a sovereign women around whome life prospered inmidst of Death.

It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life" the author's views can be explored in terms of Delay vs. Choice.  Although Delay and Choice describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Delay and Choice in terms of the contrast in openness and preconceptions between Katharina Morel and Death.

For most of the story, Katharina Morel and Death may spend a good deal of their time focusing on feeling.  Although they will both agree that feeling is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that feeling is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that reasoning is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Katharina Morel and Death would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "I think I've done a lot in my life" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life" this Catalyst is Choice.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Choice gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Delay and Choice.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "I think I've done a lot in my life" Attitude serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Choice and Attitude that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Choice (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Attitude.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Choice or Attitude to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life" the growth between Katharina Morel and Death is measured in terms of How Things are Changing.  What is progressed, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "I think I've done a lot in my life" involves a divergence between Katharina Morel and Death in terms of Delay vs. Choice:

Death tried to deter the fulfilment of Katharina Morel's heart desire to have a home since she was 10 years old and her mother died. But finally, in 1856 at the age of 66, she vinces Death and finds the sovereignty, the home and the role she aspired for.

The author takes sides by examining their openness and preconceptions.  Still, Katharina Morel and Death spend most of their time focusing on feeling:

The most interesting aspect offered by Death as the Impact Character was the relation between "feeling" and "logic", especially regarding the death of both of her husbands who had ended with and died of an unsatisfied live. If the retelling of Sprenger-Viol was right, Katharina Morel loved both of her husbands and was emotionally engaged with them. She cared for them and supported their projects. She took on all the responsibilities that the marriage brought with it, as for example the fostering of her niece and the liquidation of the failed business of Josef Morel. But she also accepted the limitation of her personal responsibility for the failure of their husbands. She did not fall into the temptation of blaming herself or becoming co-dependent. She rested an individual and accepted not only the choices but also the consequences of her husbands as theirs.
If such an attitude was explained by Katharina Morel's maturity in her personal development or because her personal inclination in the "tragic triad" was rather "death" than "guilt" which she had to overcome could not be said without a further analysis of the original text.

The passionate argument is moved forward by Choice:

Towards the second half of her life, she earned the fruits of her choices to act pragmatically and not to fall into grievance.

...held back by Attitude:

The pragmatic attitude of Katharina Morel might also have delayed or even impeded her dream of a home, if she had such a dream, as Sprenger-Viol believed. Perhaps a different emotional response would have understood her husbands needs otherwise and stopped him from a mercenary carrier, supported him to find glory at home. Many speculations could be done in that way, but the given background information was insufficient to support or descart them. Sprenger-Viol used a simple and linear style to bring her argument forwards. Katharina Morel's choices seemed always ascerted and positive, doubts and inner conflicts were mentioned but not reproduced. Sprenger-Viol justified this by the "personal" character of such information. This was an often used strategy of delimitation that distinguished historiography from biography. While a biographical work rather searched for inner motivations, historiography tried to position a person's role in the large context mostly based on actions or "historical relevance". It seemed that Sprenger-Viol had chosen this historiographic approach. What came out in this analysis, however, was that  inner doubts had historical relevance, because according to the structure of a "story mind" it was necessary to complete the argument. Otherwise it would automatically lead to speculation. In Sprenger-Viols account the reason for the long delay of the success in Katharina Morel's life, which stood in such a strong contrast to the dimension of her success, was solely explained by the "circumstances", as if history was an external success, something that happend to people and not something made by the people.

...and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is progressed:

Sprenger-Viol did not emphasize on the change towards the positive and painted Katharina Morel in a rather steadfast was. But a change could be made out when Katharina Morel gave her dream up to form a family. However, without the original text this seemed too much constructed. Bad fate did not fully abandone Katharina Morel, when the "Kaltbad" burned down or she had to abandon the Schweizerhof due to the plans of the Segesser.
Following Sprenger-Viol, it could be said that Katharina Morel was able to accept bad fate as part of life and a challenge without looking for a deeper meaning. In that cased, things would not really change but rather it could be said that Katharina Morel's will of life was stronger than death and she was able to create a remanent that accumulated after each disaster towards the wealth she left behind when her life ended.


______________________________


Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for I think I've done a lot in my life.



"Situation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  In the version of Sprenger-Viol it was the unstable and bellicose situation of the early 19th Century Europe around which Katharina Morels story evolved. A changing situation forced all characters to redefine and reposition their roles in the overall story. The focus on Katharina Morel's gender role demanded this story point to be situation. 
The selection of "activity" in this story point had emphasized more on Katharina Morel's character as a hero, which was not the aim of Sprenger-Viol.
The unique difference between "situation" and "activity" was the interpretation of Katharina Morel's strategy. Was she solely reacting on circumstances and solved problems with the skills she had at hand, or did she in fact strive actively towards the dream of a "home", which she according Sprenger-Viol had, or did she desire to achieve personal sovereignty as Hirzel interpreted?

To select "states of mind" had forced Sprenger-Viol to reveal more of the original text which she declined for ethical reasons in respect of Katharina Morel's last desire not to be published. It would have enabled an interpretation that dealt more intensively with the "fixed attitude" of Katharina Morel and her environment on femal roles and would have offered an argument for a feminist reading of the story, which was however beyond the scope of Katharina Morel.

"Manners of thinking" as the main argument would have offered a more logotherapeutic reading of the text. Had Katharina Morel in fact changed her attitude, as Hirzel suggested, and was this motivated by the death of Louis Morel or the negative memory of a Napoleon who sacrificed everything for his dream? Such an interpretation would have required the complete original text to make a more indepth analysis of the "footing".



"The Future" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  Death in the story was a fictious person. A full analysis of this relationship was not possible without the original text. The many indications about the strong Catholic faith of Katharina Morel sugested that she had a clear view of God as the good and promoter of life and that death and limitations of life somehow represented also an offence to God. 
Sprenger-Viol emphasized how Katharina Morel admired Napeleon for his wealth, but how she also rejected his arrogance. Sprenger-Viol drew Napoleon in a negative way, as the vaster of human life and respectless with the people.

"Delay" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  Death tried to deter the fulfilment of Katharina Morel's heart desire to have a home since she was 10 years old and her mother died. But finally, in 1856 at the age of 66, she vinces Death and finds the sovereignty, the home and the role she aspired for.

"Conscience" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  Katharina Morel's problem was that life was so uncontrolled, when ever she faced death it was more than just an emotional engagement, it directly affected her own, especially her material sovereignty and she had newly to put together the pieces of her life. It seemd that something in life didn't want her to succeed, this was represented by the ficticious character of Death in the interpretation, even though it was not name in the reading of Spreng-Viol.
But she suggested that the positive attitude towards life enabled Katharina Morel to overcome her tragedy and to convert the limitation in an impulse that enhanced her own consciousness, as well as her practical skills.

"Temptation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  According Dramatica theory temptation stood in opposition to conscience and expressed "the urge to embrace immediate benefits despite possible consequences". In the case of Katharina Morel's life, it was this need for quick and pragmatic solutions that allowed her to redefine her role as a women and to justify activities which were rather untypical like the charter of the ship for the Swiss Regiment from Antwerpen to Gorum and the bellicose intervention as a Pepper wome (Pfefferfrau) to free Robert Steiger from the tower of Luzern.
Still, Katharina Morel did not fall into the temptation of hyperactivity when she rejected the offer to return to the Schweizerhof in her late years.

"Feeling" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  The most interesting aspect offered by Death as the Impact Character was the relation between "feeling" and "logic", especially regarding the death of both of her husbands who had ended with and died of an unsatisfied live. If the retelling of Sprenger-Viol was right, Katharina Morel loved both of her husbands and was emotionally engaged with them. She cared for them and supported their projects. She took on all the responsibilities that the marriage brought with it, as for example the fostering of her niece and the liquidation of the failed business of Josef Morel. But she also accepted the limitation of her personal responsibility for the failure of their husbands. She did not fall into the temptation of blaming herself or becoming co-dependent. She rested an individual and accepted not only the choices but also the consequences of her husbands as theirs.
If such an attitude was explained by Katharina Morel's maturity in her personal development or because her personal inclination in the "tragic triad" was rather "death" than "guilt" which she had to overcome could not be said without a further analysis of the original text.

"Logic" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  Katharina Morel was always able to stand back, to see the situation from its pragmatic aspect and not to take misfortunes personal.
It was not clear what motivated this attitude. On the one side it could be caused by a liberal, secular ethical position in Katharina Morel, who considered the war, the death of her relatives and beloved ones, the fire in her inn and her own illnesses rather as side effects of the  "circumstances" than something that related to her. On the other side, it could be caused by a spiritual-religious position which interpreted death and misery as a test of God rather than a sanction. In any case, she was driven by an attitude that believed that all problems could be overcome and that one had the responsibility to overcome them, rather than a fatalistic suffering and waiting for better days.

"Choice" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  Towards the second half of her life, she earned the fruits of her choices to act pragmatically and not to fall into grievance.

"Attitude" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  The pragmatic attitude of Katharina Morel might also have delayed or even impeded her dream of a home, if she had such a dream, as Sprenger-Viol believed. Perhaps a different emotional response would have understood her husbands needs otherwise and stopped him from a mercenary carrier, supported him to find glory at home. Many speculations could be done in that way, but the given background information was insufficient to support or descart them. Sprenger-Viol used a simple and linear style to bring her argument forwards. Katharina Morel's choices seemed always ascerted and positive, doubts and inner conflicts were mentioned but not reproduced. Sprenger-Viol justified this by the "personal" character of such information. This was an often used strategy of delimitation that distinguished historiography from biography. While a biographical work rather searched for inner motivations, historiography tried to position a person's role in the large context mostly based on actions or "historical relevance". It seemed that Sprenger-Viol had chosen this historiographic approach. What came out in this analysis, however, was that  inner doubts had historical relevance, because according to the structure of a "story mind" it was necessary to complete the argument. Otherwise it would automatically lead to speculation. In Sprenger-Viols account the reason for the long delay of the success in Katharina Morel's life, which stood in such a strong contrast to the dimension of her success, was solely explained by the "circumstances", as if history was an external success, something that happend to people and not something made by the people.

"How Things are Changing" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  Sprenger-Viol did not emphasize on the change towards the positive and painted Katharina Morel in a rather steadfast was. But a change could be made out when Katharina Morel gave her dream up to form a family. However, without the original text this seemed too much constructed. Bad fate did not fully abandone Katharina Morel, when the "Kaltbad" burned down or she had to abandon the Schweizerhof due to the plans of the Segesser.
Following Sprenger-Viol, it could be said that Katharina Morel was able to accept bad fate as part of life and a challenge without looking for a deeper meaning. In that cased, things would not really change but rather it could be said that Katharina Morel's will of life was stronger than death and she was able to create a remanent that accumulated after each disaster towards the wealth she left behind when her life ended.






Main Character Story Thematic Report for "I think I've done a lot in my life"

In "I think I've done a lot in my life," Katharina Morel's Throughline is an activity or endeavor.  In fact, Katharina Morel's Concerns revolve around an activity or endeavor of Obtaining.  This is not necessarily Katharina Morel's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as her primary Concern.  

Katharina Morel proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Approach, especially in reference to Obtaining.  In fact, when it comes to Obtaining, Katharina Morel often notices a disparity between Approach and Attitude that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of Obtaining through Katharina Morel's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Katharina Morel's motivation comes from an imbalance between Consider and Reconsider.  Specifically, what pulls Katharina Morel forward through the story is a deficiency of Consider.

In fact, Katharina Morel's lack of Consider is what gets her into trouble.  In addition, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  However, only if Katharina Morel continues to believe that her own deficiency of Consider is not really causing all the problems but is just the work she must do to resolve the problems will she be able to set things right.  The question is, will she be able to hold on to her resolve until all the pieces are in place?

What moves Katharina Morel forward is that her focus is on the problem.  Katharina Morel doesn't see the problem to be in herself.  Rather, she believes the problem to be Feeling and sees Logic as the solution.  As a result, Katharina Morel will make progress toward the solution unless she begins to doubt herself, and comes to believe that she is preventing the problem from being solved.

Although Katharina Morel is not comfortable with the approach toward the goal regarding Innermost Desires that everyone seems concerned with, she finds herself dragged along on the quest because of her Abilities in the area of Morality.  Actually, Katharina Morel is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why she cannot avoid participating in the quest where she begins to see that she holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Katharina Morel's Unique Ability of Morality can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, her use of Morality is undermined by an aspect of Preconception which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to her effectiveness varies as Katharina Morel grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Katharina Morel can overcome her Preconception and effectively rely on Morality, she may be able to address the fact that she has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Morality and Preconception causes both growth and backsliding in Katharina Morel, as evidenced by her varying degree of Doing.

In summary, an activity or endeavor is the realm in which Katharina Morel primarily operates:

Sprenger-Viol described Katharina Morel foremost along her positive attitude towards the manageability of life's challenges.

...especially in regard to Obtaining, which is her chief Concern:

Katharina Morel actively and directly acted in order to restore and build a home for herself and others.

As an individual, Katharina Morel is focused on issues involving Approach more than most:

Katharina Morel is most sensitive to material lack in life, her own and that of others and tried to mitigate it.

...which makes her responsive to issues regarding Attitude:

Katharina Morel approached issues as a doer. Which enabled her finally to remain steadfast in her desire to build a home and to maintain her personality. For that reason she had not to change but rather grew from the fundament she had brought with her.

She often perceives a disparity between Approach and Attitude:

It was the balance between an optimistic attitude that things finally will turn out well, and her beliefe that a positive outcome required her activity to bring it about which led to the success in Katharina Morel's life.

Katharina Morel is driven by a deficiency of Consider:

The moment in which Katharina Morel's consideration came out most stronges was the murder of her brother-in-law Louis Morel, which led to her decision not to take on the responsibilities of a marriage again and to concentrat fully on her professional carreer, her nieces and her caritative works.

...which causes her to see Feeling as the source of her problems:

According Sprenger-Viol Katherina Morel's heart desire was a "home" but circumstances destroyed her "home" as soon as she setteled in, which must have caused a feeling of uneasiness, insecurity and uprootedness. 

...and Logic as the best solution:

It was supposed that Katharina Morel overcame her feeling of homelessness through her logical and strategical thinking which led her to take pragmatic actions that resolved the problem immediately, even though only for short time.

In fact, Katharina Morel's own lack of Consider is what allows the story's problem to be resolved.  Katharina Morel is given the opportunity to see this as she becomes wholly involved with the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Katharina Morel's Unique Ability pertaining to Morality that holds the means to resolving the story's problem:

It was Katharina Morel's positive attitude towards life that enable her to be successful. It was assumed that the references about her moral values were made in relation to this attitude. 

Unfortunately, her effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Preconception:

One of the problems in Katharina Morel's life seemed to be her rather unreflected character. Even though no clear affirmation could be made on this aspect without the full original text. However, in the Sprenger-Viol's biography Katharina Morel's factual or neutral ["sachliche) description of the events appeared rather in a logical-mathematical and pragmatic interpretation of the facts than a philosophical inquiry into life in the sense of a critical hermeneutic. There was not much place of self-doubt in Katharina Morel's life and apparently, it was neither necessary.

Over the course of the story Katharina Morel's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which she engages in Doing:

Katharina Morel was honoured with the Saint Helena Medal for her great deeds in the Russian campaign, and by her fellow citizens for her efforts in bringing the tourism industry further in Luzern. Deeds defined Katharina Morel's life and character.


______________________________


Main Character Illustrations for I think I've done a lot in my life.



"Activity" as the Main Character Throughline:  Sprenger-Viol described Katharina Morel foremost along her positive attitude towards the manageability of life's challenges.

"Obtaining" as the Main Character Concern:  Katharina Morel actively and directly acted in order to restore and build a home for herself and others.

"Approach" as the Main Character Issue:  Katharina Morel is most sensitive to material lack in life, her own and that of others and tried to mitigate it.

"Consider" as the Main Character Problem:  The moment in which Katharina Morel's consideration came out most stronges was the murder of her brother-in-law Louis Morel, which led to her decision not to take on the responsibilities of a marriage again and to concentrat fully on her professional carreer, her nieces and her caritative works.

"Reconsider" as the Main Character Solution:  Sprenger-Viol did not mention any problem in Katharina Morel's life but emphasized on the overall historical background that caused difficult circumstances. However, the triumphal words in Katharina Morel's letter to her relatives affirming her sovereignty in the position at the Schweizerhof, indicate that she must have felt a turning point in her life, a lesson learnt or a victory about a problem that made her suffer for a long time. Considering this, it could be interpreted that Katharina Morel had to let her dream go in order to achive it, as Hirzel suggested.

"Feeling" as the Main Character Symptom:  According Sprenger-Viol Katherina Morel's heart desire was a "home" but circumstances destroyed her "home" as soon as she setteled in, which must have caused a feeling of uneasiness, insecurity and uprootedness. 

"Logic" as the Main Character Response:  It was supposed that Katharina Morel overcame her feeling of homelessness through her logical and strategical thinking which led her to take pragmatic actions that resolved the problem immediately, even though only for short time.

"Morality" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  It was Katharina Morel's positive attitude towards life that enable her to be successful. It was assumed that the references about her moral values were made in relation to this attitude. 

"Preconception" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  One of the problems in Katharina Morel's life seemed to be her rather unreflected character. Even though no clear affirmation could be made on this aspect without the full original text. However, in the Sprenger-Viol's biography Katharina Morel's factual or neutral ["sachliche) description of the events appeared rather in a logical-mathematical and pragmatic interpretation of the facts than a philosophical inquiry into life in the sense of a critical hermeneutic. There was not much place of self-doubt in Katharina Morel's life and apparently, it was neither necessary.

"Doing" as the Main Character Benchmark:  Katharina Morel was honoured with the Saint Helena Medal for her great deeds in the Russian campaign, and by her fellow citizens for her efforts in bringing the tourism industry further in Luzern. Deeds defined Katharina Morel's life and character.






Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "I think I've done a lot in my life"

In "I think I've done a lot in my life," Death is the impact character, meaning that we see Death as the primary influence on Katharina Morel's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Katharina Morel is on the right path, and Death pressures her to take a worse approach.  As a Manipulation character, Death works through manipulation.  

With regard to that "manner of thinking", Death is primarily Concerned with Changing One's Nature, especially in terms of Rationalization.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Rationalization and Obligation that is most exemplified by Death.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Control.  In other words, changes in his control over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Death's satisfaction.  Only if Uncontrolled replaced Control would Death be satisfied.

Death is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Responsibility.  At least, he would be able to if Denial didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Death feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with Changing One's Nature.  

In summary, Death's primary Concern is a manner of thinking or demeanor:

Death externally limited Katharina Morel constantly, however this did not hinder her to become wealthy. It rather had an impact on her character making her stronger and giving an impulse to extend her abilities and skills.

...regarding Changing One's Nature:

Death could finally not change Katharina Morel.

More specifically, he impacts the balance between Rationalization and Obligation.  His primary influence is focused on Rationalization:

Sprenger-Viol gave a clear advantageous feel about the rationalizing attitude of Katharina Morel. This seemed also the view Katharina Morel seemed to offer in her own text. 
Objectively, this attitude could be evaluated more critical which would change the thematic issues of the story mind.

...As a result, issues regarding Obligation arise:

Katharina More, in the interpretation of Sprenger-Viol seemed to have seen the duties and limitations of her life rather as a hindering which set a counterpoint to her do-er attitude and her faith to achieve her goals whatever would come. 
However, a different reading would have been possible in which the impact of Death and limitations were the true drivers of personal growth. Yet, it did not seem that Katharina Morel had evaluated her life in this way, at least not from the text at hand.

As Death's impact grows, it tips the balance between Rationalization and Obligation in the eyes of the other characters.:

Katharina Morel's story promoted the idea that it was better to overcome obstacles than blindly follow one's duties.

Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Control:

All the persons in Katharina Morel's life representing Deat seemed to have an issue with "control". Napoleon wished to control the world while Anne-Marie only prefered a stable home. 

...and his satisfaction with Uncontrolled:

Nothing was known about the solutions of the Impact characters in the life story of Katharina Morel. But that they all died before Katharina Morel inclined towards an interpretation that they would not achieve satisfaction.

Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Responsibility:

Death in deed managed many times to twart Katharina Morel's plans and dreams of the future; when her mother died, when her husband decided in favor for the adventure of war, when her first and, later, her second husband died, when the "Kaltbad" burned down, when the Segesser's sold the Schweizerhof.

...he is held back by an aspect of Denial:

Finally, Death was closed up in a no-win situation. Katharina Morel's life would end as any human life, but she would leave a large heritage and an eternal memory behind her. 


______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for I think I've done a lot in my life.



"Manipulation" as the Impact Character Throughline:  Death externally limited Katharina Morel constantly, however this did not hinder her to become wealthy. It rather had an impact on her character making her stronger and giving an impulse to extend her abilities and skills.

"Changing One's Nature" as the Impact Character Concern:  Death could finally not change Katharina Morel.

"Rationalization" as the Impact Character Issue:  Sprenger-Viol gave a clear advantageous feel about the rationalizing attitude of Katharina Morel. This seemed also the view Katharina Morel seemed to offer in her own text. 
Objectively, this attitude could be evaluated more critical which would change the thematic issues of the story mind.

"Control" as the Impact Character Problem:  All the persons in Katharina Morel's life representing Deat seemed to have an issue with "control". Napoleon wished to control the world while Anne-Marie only prefered a stable home. 

"Uncontrolled" as the Impact Character Solution:  Nothing was known about the solutions of the Impact characters in the life story of Katharina Morel. But that they all died before Katharina Morel inclined towards an interpretation that they would not achieve satisfaction.

"Temptation" as the Impact Character Symptom:  Katharina Morel seemed to have been twice in seriouse trouble justifying her choices; not so much to her self, than to others. First, when she had to explain why she would follow her husband Heinrich Peyer into the mercernary service and, second, when she rejected to take again her managing position in the Schweizerhof. The latter was also recognized as a "contradiction" by Sprenger-Viol, the former contradiction was overseen.

"Conscience" as the Impact Character Response:  The major feel of Katharina Morel's biography was that Death as an Impact character directed her to giving up, but she responded by going beyond her known limits.

"Responsibility" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  Death in deed managed many times to twart Katharina Morel's plans and dreams of the future; when her mother died, when her husband decided in favor for the adventure of war, when her first and, later, her second husband died, when the "Kaltbad" burned down, when the Segesser's sold the Schweizerhof.

"Denial" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  Finally, Death was closed up in a no-win situation. Katharina Morel's life would end as any human life, but she would leave a large heritage and an eternal memory behind her. 

"Playing a Role" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  In a certain way she managed to enter history playing an important role in Luzern, Switzerland and even Europe through wich she had immortalized.



