Overall Story Plot Report


Story Points for "I think I've done a lot in my life"

In "I think I've done a lot in my life," the Goal is Innermost Desires.  Some of the Overall characters are for the Goal, while others are against it.  Regardless, before Innermost Desires can be achieved, certain Requirements must be met.  These Requirements all involve Impulsive Responses in one way or another.  As a result, although the Overall characters are all concerned with Innermost Desires they spend most of their time concentrating on Impulsive Responses as the means of achieving it or the best place to prevent it, depending upon their point of view.

Just as the Goal depends upon Requirements, Requirements depend up Prerequisites.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," these Prerequisites all have to do with How Things are Changing.  In other words, only though progress in How Things are Changing will Requirements of Impulsive Responses be met, clearing the way toward Innermost Desires.

What if the Goal is not achieved?  The alternative is the Consequence.  The Consequence may appear to be positive or negative, depending upon which side of the Goal one is on.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," this Consequence involves The Future.  Something to do with The Future then will happen if a Goal regarding Innermost Desires is not achieved.

The audience can judge progress toward the Goal by the number of Requirements that are met.  Indications that the Consequence is becoming more imminent is provided by Forewarnings.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," changes in Doing act as indicators that the Consequence is drawing near.

Just as Prerequisites provide the groundwork necessary to meet the Requirements, Preconditions set the stage for the advent of Forewarnings.  So, in "I think I've done a lot in my life," Forewarnings in the form of Doing are preceded by Preconditions of Playing a Role.  A sure way to tell a Prerequisite from a Precondition is that Prerequisites are an essential part of the effort toward the Goal, while Preconditions are only made essential due to someone's insistence that the conditions be met.

While all this effort is going on, certain Costs are incurred and Dividends accrued that make the effort all that more draining or rewarding.  In "I think I've done a lot in my life," Costs involve Changing One's Nature, while Dividends are found in Obtaining.

In summary, "I think I've done a lot in my life" concerns a Goal regarding Innermost Desires:

Katharina Morel's innermost desire was described as the achievement of sovereignty.

...which Requires progress to be made in Impulsive Responses:

A stable psychological condition and a friendly character were important requirements for Katharina Morel to support others when needed and to maintain lifelong friendship networks. Further, she had extraordinary organizational and leadership skills which enabled her to take on new responsibilities and grow in her role beyond her original situation and position.

If the Goal is not achieved, a Consequence regarding The Future will transpire:

Had Katharina Morel not achieved that goal she would not have become a "historically relevant" person in the traditional sense and would not serve as a role model up to current days. She would certainly not have had her picture exposed at the Central Library of Luzern.

The imminent approach of the Consequence is gauged by instances or degrees of Doing:

Sprenge-Viol's biography described Katharina Morel's doing always successful which shaped the idea that as long as she would keep doing things would finally turn out well.

...which come when Preconditions of Playing a Role exist:

The changing sociopolitical environment inspired to redefine roles and to take on new adventures.

Playing a Role is not intrinsically essential to progress toward the goal (essential Prerequisites pertain to How Things are Changing):

Katharina Morel had to work early in her fathers inn and was forced to take on responsibilities very early when her mother died. This prepared for futur challenges. In a certain sense it could be observed how each step prepared her for the next and she took on ever more responsibilties in a more and more independent way.

...but are made essential by someone's insistence.  As a result of these efforts, Costs involving Changing One's Nature are incurred:

The price for remaining steadfast on her way was possibly to renounce the dream of a traditional family and a classical femal role as mother and housekeeper.

...while Dividends are found in Obtaining:

The redefinition of her femal role opened her the way to a unparalleled carreer.



