Overall Story Plot Report


Story Points for "Your Story"

In "Your Story," the Goal is Innermost Desires.  Some of the Overall characters are for the Goal, while others are against it.  Regardless, before Innermost Desires can be achieved, certain Requirements must be met.  These Requirements all involve Impulsive Responses in one way or another.  As a result, although the Overall characters are all concerned with Innermost Desires they spend most of their time concentrating on Impulsive Responses as the means of achieving it or the best place to prevent it, depending upon their point of view.

Just as the Goal depends upon Requirements, Requirements depend up Prerequisites.  In "Your Story," these Prerequisites all have to do with How Things are Changing.  In other words, only though progress in How Things are Changing will Requirements of Impulsive Responses be met, clearing the way toward Innermost Desires.

What if the Goal is not achieved?  The alternative is the Consequence.  The Consequence may appear to be positive or negative, depending upon which side of the Goal one is on.  In "Your Story," this Consequence involves The Future.  Something to do with The Future then will happen if a Goal regarding Innermost Desires is not achieved.

The audience can judge progress toward the Goal by the number of Requirements that are met.  Indications that the Consequence is becoming more imminent is provided by Forewarnings.  In "Your Story," changes in Doing act as indicators that the Consequence is drawing near.

Just as Prerequisites provide the groundwork necessary to meet the Requirements, Preconditions set the stage for the advent of Forewarnings.  So, in "Your Story," Forewarnings in the form of Doing are preceded by Preconditions of Playing a Role.  A sure way to tell a Prerequisite from a Precondition is that Prerequisites are an essential part of the effort toward the Goal, while Preconditions are only made essential due to someone's insistence that the conditions be met.

While all this effort is going on, certain Costs are incurred and Dividends accrued that make the effort all that more draining or rewarding.  In "Your Story," Costs involve Changing One's Nature, while Dividends are found in Obtaining.

In summary, "Your Story" concerns a Goal regarding Innermost Desires, which Requires progress to be made in Impulsive Responses.  If the Goal is not achieved, a Consequence regarding The Future will transpire.  The imminent approach of the Consequence is gauged by instances or degrees of Doing, which come when Preconditions of Playing a Role exist.  Playing a Role is not intrinsically essential to progress toward the goal (essential Prerequisites pertain to How Things are Changing) but are made essential by someone's insistence.  As a result of these efforts, Costs involving Changing One's Nature are incurred, while Dividends are found in Obtaining.


______________________________

VOCABULARY:

Changing One's Nature:  transforming one's nature

Doing:  engaging in a physical activity

How Things are Changing:  the way things are going

Impulsive Responses:  innate responses

Innermost Desires:  basic drives and desires

Obtaining:  achieving or possessing something

Playing a Role:  temporarily adopting a lifestyle

The Future:  what will happen or what will be

