Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

The Overall Story of "Your Story" takes place in the Fixed Attitude Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with a fixed attitude or outlook.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Innermost Desires.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with a fixed attitude or outlook pertaining to Innermost Desires.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Innermost Desires with Dream while others respond with Hope.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Innermost Desires with Dream or Hope by illustrating their effects on Denial and Closure.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "Your Story," some see Disbelief as causing the problem and Faith as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Support is at the heart of the problem and Oppose will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Dream vs. Hope as an approach with Faith or Oppose as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "Your Story," Closure is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "Your Story" this Inhibitor is Commitment.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Innermost Desires, Closure and Commitment provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "Your Story," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses.

In summary, the Overall problem in "Your Story" resides in a fixed attitude or outlook pertaining to Innermost Desires.  Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Innermost Desires, they differ in approach:  some responding with Dream and others with Hope.  The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Dream and Hope.  The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Denial and Closure.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Disbelief as the problem and Faith the best solution, others find Support at the heart of the problem and Oppose the best way to resolve it.  These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Closure, and held back by Commitment, while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses.  
______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Overall Story Throughline:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Concern:  

"Dream" as the Overall Story Issue:  

"Disbelief" as the Overall Story Problem:  

"Faith" as the Overall Story Solution:  

"Support" as the Overall Story Symptom:  

"Oppose" as the Overall Story Response:  

"Closure" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  

"Commitment" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  





Additional Overall Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Goal:  

"The Future" as the Overall Story Consequence:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Cost:  

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Dividend:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Requirement:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  

"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  

"Doing" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  






Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer, these value judgments center on Choice.  The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "Your Story," this alternative value standard examines Delay.  Conflicts occur between Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer in regards to the relative value of Choice vs. Delay.  It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "Your Story" the author's views can be explored in terms of Choice vs. Delay.  Although Choice and Delay describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "Your Story," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Choice and Delay in terms of the contrast in preconceptions and openness between Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer.

For most of the story, Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer may spend a good deal of their time focusing on considering.  Although they will both agree that considering is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that considering is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that reconsidering is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "Your Story" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "Your Story" this Catalyst is Openness.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Openness gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Choice and Openness.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "Your Story" Self Interest serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Openness and Self Interest that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Openness (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Self Interest.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Openness or Self Interest to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "Your Story" the growth between Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer is measured in terms of How Things are Changing.  What is progressed, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "Your Story" involves a divergence between Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer in terms of Choice vs. Delay.  The author takes sides by examining their preconceptions and openness.  Still, Heinrich Weiss and Eduard Sulzer spend most of their time focusing on considering.  The passionate argument is moved forward by Openness, held back by Self Interest, and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is progressed.  
______________________________


Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Situation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  

"The Future" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  

"Choice" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  

"Disbelief" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  

"Faith" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  

"Consider" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  

"Reconsider" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  

"Openness" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  

"Self Interest" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  






Main Character Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

In "Your Story," Heinrich Weiss's Throughline is an activity or endeavor.  In fact, Heinrich Weiss's Concerns revolve around an activity or endeavor of Obtaining.  This is not necessarily Heinrich Weiss's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as his primary Concern.  

Heinrich Weiss proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Attitude, especially in reference to Obtaining.  In fact, when it comes to Obtaining, Heinrich Weiss often notices a disparity between Attitude and Approach that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of Obtaining through Heinrich Weiss's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Heinrich Weiss's motivation comes from an imbalance between Hinder and Help.  Specifically, what pulls Heinrich Weiss forward through the story is a deficiency of Hinder.

Unfortunately, Heinrich Weiss's lack of Hinder is what gets him into trouble.  In fact, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  Only if Heinrich Weiss comes to realize that it is his own deficiency of Hinder that is causing all the problems will he be able to set things right.  The question is, will he see this before his options run out?

What holds Heinrich Weiss back is that his focus is elsewhere.  Heinrich Weiss doesn't see the problem to be in himself.  Rather, he believes the problem to be Support and sees Oppose as the solution.  As a result, Heinrich Weiss might never come to understand that he holds the key to solving the problem unless he is forced by circumstance to address the issue.

Although Heinrich Weiss is also interested in working toward the goal regarding Innermost Desires that everyone seems concerned with, he finds himself indispensable on the quest because of his Abilities in the area of Approach.  Actually, Heinrich Weiss is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why he cannot resist participating in the quest where he begins to see that he holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Heinrich Weiss's Unique Ability of Approach can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, his use of Approach is undermined by an aspect of Delay which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to his effectiveness varies as Heinrich Weiss grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Heinrich Weiss can overcome his Delay and effectively rely on Approach, he may be able to address the fact that he has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Approach and Delay causes both growth and backsliding in Heinrich Weiss, as evidenced by his varying degree of Doing.

In summary, an activity or endeavor is the realm in which Heinrich Weiss primarily operates, especially in regard to Obtaining, which is his chief Concern.  As an individual, Heinrich Weiss is focused on issues involving Attitude more than most, which makes him responsive to issues regarding Approach.  He often perceives a disparity between Attitude and Approach.  Heinrich Weiss is driven by a deficiency of Hinder, which causes him to see Support as the source of his problems and Oppose as the best solution.  In fact, Heinrich Weiss's own lack of Hinder is what prevents the story's problem from being resolved.  Heinrich Weiss is given the opportunity to see this as he becomes wholly involved in the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Heinrich Weiss's Unique Ability pertaining to Approach that holds the means to resolving the story's problem.  Unfortunately, his effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Delay.  Over the course of the story Heinrich Weiss's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which he engages in Doing.
______________________________


Main Character Illustrations for Your Story.



"Activity" as the Main Character Throughline:  

"Obtaining" as the Main Character Concern:  

"Attitude" as the Main Character Issue:  

"Hinder" as the Main Character Problem:  

"Help" as the Main Character Solution:  

"Support" as the Main Character Symptom:  

"Oppose" as the Main Character Response:  

"Approach" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  

"Delay" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  

"Doing" as the Main Character Benchmark:  






Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

In "Your Story," Eduard Sulzer is the impact character, meaning that we see Eduard Sulzer as the primary influence on Heinrich Weiss's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Heinrich Weiss is on the wrong path, and Eduard Sulzer pressures him to take a better approach.  As a Manipulation character, Eduard Sulzer works through manipulation.  

With regard to that "manner of thinking", Eduard Sulzer is primarily Concerned with Changing One's Nature, especially in terms of Obligation.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Obligation and Rationalization that is most exemplified by Eduard Sulzer.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Disbelief.  In other words, changes in his disbelief over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Eduard Sulzer's satisfaction.  Only if Faith replaced Disbelief would Eduard Sulzer be satisfied.

Eduard Sulzer is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Rationalization.  At least, he would be able to if Hope didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Eduard Sulzer feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with Changing One's Nature.  

In summary, Eduard Sulzer's primary Concern is a manner of thinking or demeanor regarding Changing One's Nature.  More specifically, he impacts the balance between Obligation and Rationalization.  His primary influence is focused on Obligation As a result, issues regarding Rationalization arise.  As Eduard Sulzer's impact grows, it tips the balance between Obligation and Rationalization in the eyes of the other characters..  Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Disbelief and his satisfaction with Faith.  Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Rationalization, he is held back by an aspect of Hope.
______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for Your Story.



"Manipulation" as the Impact Character Throughline:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Impact Character Concern:  

"Obligation" as the Impact Character Issue:  

"Disbelief" as the Impact Character Problem:  

"Faith" as the Impact Character Solution:  

"Pursuit" as the Impact Character Symptom:  

"Avoidance" as the Impact Character Response:  

"Rationalization" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  

"Hope" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  

"Playing a Role" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  




______________________________

VOCABULARY:

Activity:  an activity or endeavor

Approach:  one's methodology of doing or being

Attitude:  demeanor or outlook

Avoidance:  stepping around, preventing or escaping from a problem

Changing One's Nature:  transforming one's nature

Choice:  making a decision

Closure:  bringing something to an end or to completion

Commitment:  a decision to stick with something regardless of the consequences

Consider:  weigh pros and cons

Delay:  putting off until later

Denial:  the refusal to admit to oneself or others that a previously held view is no longer true

Disbelief:  the belief that something is untrue

Doing:  engaging in a physical activity

Dream:  a desired future that does not fall within reasonable expectations

Faith:  accepting something as certain without proof

Fixed Attitude:  a fixed attitude or outlook

Help:  a direct assistance to another's effort

Hinder:  undermining another's effort

Hope:  a desired future that falls within reasonable expectations

How Things are Changing:  the way things are going

Impulsive Responses:  innate responses

Innermost Desires:  basic drives and desires

Manipulation:  a manner of thinking or demeanor

Obligation:  accepting a task or situation in exchange for someone's earlier or potential favors

Obtaining:  achieving or possessing something

Openness:  willingness to reevaluate

Oppose:  an indirect detraction from another's effort

Playing a Role:  temporarily adopting a lifestyle

Preconception:  adhering to a previous held view; unwillingness to reevaluate

Pursuit:  the drive to seek after

Rationalization:  an alternative explanation used to mask the real reason

Reconsider:  thinking through again

Self Interest:  doing or being based on what is best for oneself

Situation:  a situation or environment

Support:  indirect assistance given to another's efforts

The Future:  what will happen or what will be

