Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "Searching for Utopia"

The Overall Story of "Searching for Utopia" takes place in the Manipulation Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with a manner of thinking or demeanor.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Playing a Role.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with a manner of thinking or demeanor pertaining to Playing a Role.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Playing a Role with Knowledge while others respond with Thought.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Playing a Role with Knowledge or Thought by illustrating their effects on Ability and Desire.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "Searching for Utopia," some see Process as causing the problem and Result as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Unproven is at the heart of the problem and Proven will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Knowledge vs. Thought as an approach with Result or Proven as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "Searching for Utopia," Thought is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "Searching for Utopia" this Inhibitor is Worry.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Playing a Role, Thought and Worry provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "Searching for Utopia," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Changing One's Nature.

In summary, the Overall problem in "Searching for Utopia" resides in a manner of thinking or demeanor:

denn wir wollen nicht einmal die Freiheit, wenn es möglich wäre, durch Euch, wir wollen sie durch uns, wir wollen sie durch Alle, wie für Alle.

...pertaining to Playing a Role.  Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Playing a Role, they differ in approach:  some responding with Knowledge and others with Thought.  The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Knowledge and Thought.  The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Ability and Desire.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Process as the problem and Result the best solution, others find Unproven at the heart of the problem and Proven the best way to resolve it.  These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Thought, and held back by Worry, while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Changing One's Nature.  
______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for Searching for Utopia.



"Manipulation" as the Overall Story Throughline:  denn wir wollen nicht einmal die Freiheit, wenn es möglich wäre, durch Euch, wir wollen sie durch uns, wir wollen sie durch Alle, wie für Alle.


"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Concern:  

"Knowledge" as the Overall Story Issue:  

"Process" as the Overall Story Problem:  

"Result" as the Overall Story Solution:  

"Unproven" as the Overall Story Symptom:  

"Proven" as the Overall Story Response:  

"Thought" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  

"Worry" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  



Additional Overall Story Illustrations for Searching for Utopia.



"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Goal:  Die Freiheit bricht sich Bahn, und die Thyrannei selbst ist verdammt ihr durch blinden Widerstand Bahn brechen zu helfen und ihr Verbündeter zu werden. – 
...
Wie groß und schwierig auch immer unsere Aufgabe ist, wir fühlen die Kraft mit der Arbeit wachsen.
Erhalte nur Du deine Freiheit – das Einzige was der Erhaltung wert ist.



"Doing" as the Overall Story Consequence:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Overall Story Cost:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Dividend:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Requirement:  

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  

"The Future" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  



Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "Searching for Utopia"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker, these value judgments center on Wisdom.  The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "Searching for Utopia," this alternative value standard examines Enlightenment.  Conflicts occur between Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker in regards to the relative value of Wisdom vs. Enlightenment.  It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "Searching for Utopia" the author's views can be explored in terms of Wisdom vs. Enlightenment.  Although Wisdom and Enlightenment describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "Searching for Utopia," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Wisdom and Enlightenment in terms of the contrast in skills and experiences between Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker.

For most of the story, Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker may spend a good deal of their time focusing on being unproven.  Although they will both agree that being unproven is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that being unproven is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that proving is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "Searching for Utopia" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "Searching for Utopia" this Catalyst is Enlightenment.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Enlightenment gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Wisdom and Enlightenment.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "Searching for Utopia" Threat serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Enlightenment and Threat that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Enlightenment (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Threat.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Enlightenment or Threat to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "Searching for Utopia" the growth between Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker is measured in terms of Obtaining.  What is obtained, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "Searching for Utopia" involves a divergence between Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker in terms of Wisdom vs. Enlightenment.  The author takes sides by examining their skills and experiences.  Still, Emma Herwegh and Friedrich Hecker spend most of their time focusing on being unproven.  The passionate argument is moved forward by Enlightenment, held back by Threat, and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is obtained.  
______________________________

Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for Searching for Utopia.



"Activity" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  Ehe dies Antwort nicht geworden, kehre ich nicht heim.


"Doing" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  W. hat weder Ihren Befehl, noch seinem Versprechen wegen der Depeschen Folge geleistet, unsere Mannschaft ist der ewigen Vertröstungen von einem Tage zum andern müde, und nicht mehr zu halten, und die materiellen Mittel sind erschöpft.
Es bleiben uns jetzt nur drei Wege, entweder zu verhungern, auseinanderzugehen, oder uns Ihnen in kürzester Frist anzuschließen.
Darum bitte ich um eine entschiedene Antwort.
So sagen Sie Herweg, rufen könne ich ihn nicht, aber wenn er kommen wolle, und recht bald und in recht großer Anzahl, soll mir’s lieb sein.


"Wisdom" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  

"Hunch" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  

"Theory" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  

"Unproven" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  

"Proven" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  

"Enlightenment" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  

"Threat" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  

"Obtaining" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  



Main Character Story Thematic Report for "Searching for Utopia"

In "Searching for Utopia," Emma Herwegh's Throughline is a fixed attitude or outlook.  In fact, Emma Herwegh's Concerns revolve around a fixed attitude or outlook of Impulsive Responses.  This is not necessarily Emma Herwegh's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as her primary Concern.  

Emma Herwegh proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Value, especially in reference to Impulsive Responses.  In fact, when it comes to Impulsive Responses, Emma Herwegh often notices a disparity between Value and Worth that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of Impulsive Responses through Emma Herwegh's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Emma Herwegh's motivation comes from an imbalance between Cause and Effect.  Specifically, what drives Emma Herwegh forward through the story is an over abundance of Cause.

In fact, Emma Herwegh's excess of Cause is what gets her into trouble.  In addition, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  However, only if Emma Herwegh continues to believe that her own over abundance of Cause is not really causing all the problems but is just the work she must do to resolve the problems will she be able to set things right.  The question is, will she be able to hold on to her resolve long enough?

What moves Emma Herwegh forward is that her focus is on the problem.  Emma Herwegh doesn't see the problem to be in herself.  Rather, she believes the problem to be Unproven and sees Proven as the solution.  As a result, Emma Herwegh will make progress toward the solution unless she begins to doubt herself, and comes to believe that she is preventing the problem from being solved.

Although Emma Herwegh is not comfortable with the approach toward the goal regarding Playing a Role that everyone seems concerned with, she finds herself dragged along on the quest because of her Abilities in the area of Worth.  Actually, Emma Herwegh is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why she cannot avoid participating in the quest where she begins to see that she holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Emma Herwegh's Unique Ability of Worth can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, her use of Worth is undermined by an aspect of Desire which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to her effectiveness varies as Emma Herwegh grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Emma Herwegh can overcome her Desire and effectively rely on Worth, she may be able to address the fact that she has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Worth and Desire causes both growth and backsliding in Emma Herwegh, as evidenced by her varying degree of Innermost Desires.

In summary, a fixed attitude or outlook is the realm in which Emma Herwegh primarily operates:

Damals wäre es für Herwegh ein Leichtes gewesen, die Republik auf dem ganzen Wege zu proklamiren, die bestehenden Behörden ab- und neu einzusetzen.
Die Bauern hätten schon aus Furcht Alles angenommen, 
er wollte jedoch bis zur Vereinigung mit den Andern absichtlich den Gebrauch jedes revolutionairen Mittels vermeiden, 
um ihnen durch die That zu beweisen, daß seine Sache keine Parteisache, und daß er nie etwas Anderes im Sinne gehabt als: mit dem Volk, für das Volk zu kämpfen und jedes Separatwesen seinem Begriff von Freiheit entgegen war.
Von Begeisterung für die Republik, war übrigens damals bei den Bauern keine Rede.
...
So viel Kämpfe ihm auch noch bevorstehen mögen, so viel seiner besten Kinder auch noch als Opfer des Despotismus fallen werden, ehe es Sieger bleibt, - es weiß, daß es später oder früher siegen muss, und kann stolz mit jenem edlen Republikaner, den man hier vor einigen Tagen zu den Galeeren verdammt, ausrufen:
à moi l’avenir!
Vive la République démocratique et sociale!

...especially in regard to Impulsive Responses, which is her chief Concern:

...
Wollt Ihr wirklich Nichts als eine badische Republik, sagt ich ihm, so mögt Ihr uns getrost ausschließen, denn welcher Mensch kann sich heutiges Tags dafür interessiren.
Wollt Ihr aber die Republick für ganz Deutschland, wo möglich für ganz Europa, und betrachtet wir dies stets von Hecker vorausgesetzt die badische nur als einen Anfang derselben, mit welchem Recht zögert Ihr da, die Mitwirkung Eurer Brüder und darunter Eurer besten Brüder laut zu begehren?
Bedenkt wohl, daß die Männer uns’rer Legion nur um mit Euch zu kämpfen die weite Reise unternommen, und daß sie auf den Barrikaden von Paris mitgefochten;
...

As an individual, Emma Herwegh is focused on issues involving Value more than most, which makes her responsive to issues regarding Worth.  She often perceives a disparity between Value and Worth.  Emma Herwegh is driven by an over abundance of Cause:

Freiburg und die ganz Umgegend bis in’s Höllenthal sollem mit Truppen besetzt sein. – 
Mich, meine Herren, wenn’s dem Präsidenten Recht ist, und Sie mir die Botschaft anvertrauen wollen.
Von Ihnen kommt keiner durch, Sie würden festgehalten und dürfen jetzt Ihre Posten weniger als je verlassen.
Mich, lässt man überall pasiren. 
Alle waren’s wohl zufrieden, und so saß ich eine halbe Stunde später in der Eisenbahn.

...which causes her to see Unproven as the source of her problems and Proven as the best solution.  In fact, Emma Herwegh's own excess of Cause is what allows the story's problem to be resolved.  Emma Herwegh is given the opportunity to see this as she becomes wholly involved with the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Emma Herwegh's Unique Ability pertaining to Worth that holds the means to resolving the story's problem.  Unfortunately, her effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Desire.  Over the course of the story Emma Herwegh's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which she engages in Innermost Desires.
______________________________

Main Character Illustrations for Searching for Utopia.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Main Character Throughline:  Damals wäre es für Herwegh ein Leichtes gewesen, die Republik auf dem ganzen Wege zu proklamiren, die bestehenden Behörden ab- und neu einzusetzen.
Die Bauern hätten schon aus Furcht Alles angenommen, 
er wollte jedoch bis zur Vereinigung mit den Andern absichtlich den Gebrauch jedes revolutionairen Mittels vermeiden, 
um ihnen durch die That zu beweisen, daß seine Sache keine Parteisache, und daß er nie etwas Anderes im Sinne gehabt als: mit dem Volk, für das Volk zu kämpfen und jedes Separatwesen seinem Begriff von Freiheit entgegen war.
Von Begeisterung für die Republik, war übrigens damals bei den Bauern keine Rede.
...
So viel Kämpfe ihm auch noch bevorstehen mögen, so viel seiner besten Kinder auch noch als Opfer des Despotismus fallen werden, ehe es Sieger bleibt, - es weiß, daß es später oder früher siegen muss, und kann stolz mit jenem edlen Republikaner, den man hier vor einigen Tagen zu den Galeeren verdammt, ausrufen:
à moi l’avenir!
Vive la République démocratique et sociale!


"Impulsive Responses" as the Main Character Concern:  ...
Wollt Ihr wirklich Nichts als eine badische Republik, sagt ich ihm, so mögt Ihr uns getrost ausschließen, denn welcher Mensch kann sich heutiges Tags dafür interessiren.
Wollt Ihr aber die Republick für ganz Deutschland, wo möglich für ganz Europa, und betrachtet wir dies stets von Hecker vorausgesetzt die badische nur als einen Anfang derselben, mit welchem Recht zögert Ihr da, die Mitwirkung Eurer Brüder und darunter Eurer besten Brüder laut zu begehren?
Bedenkt wohl, daß die Männer uns’rer Legion nur um mit Euch zu kämpfen die weite Reise unternommen, und daß sie auf den Barrikaden von Paris mitgefochten;
...

"Value" as the Main Character Issue:  

"Cause" as the Main Character Problem:  Freiburg und die ganz Umgegend bis in’s Höllenthal sollem mit Truppen besetzt sein. – 
Mich, meine Herren, wenn’s dem Präsidenten Recht ist, und Sie mir die Botschaft anvertrauen wollen.
Von Ihnen kommt keiner durch, Sie würden festgehalten und dürfen jetzt Ihre Posten weniger als je verlassen.
Mich, lässt man überall pasiren. 
Alle waren’s wohl zufrieden, und so saß ich eine halbe Stunde später in der Eisenbahn.


"Effect" as the Main Character Solution:  

"Unproven" as the Main Character Symptom:  

"Proven" as the Main Character Response:  

"Worth" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  

"Desire" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Main Character Benchmark:  



Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "Searching for Utopia"

In "Searching for Utopia," Friedrich Hecker is the impact character, meaning that we see Friedrich Hecker as the primary influence on Emma Herwegh's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Emma Herwegh is on the right path, and Friedrich Hecker pressures her to take a worse approach.  As a Situation character, Friedrich Hecker works by changing the situation.  

With regard to that "situation", Friedrich Hecker is primarily Concerned with How Things are Changing, especially in terms of Fact.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Fact and Fantasy that is most exemplified by Friedrich Hecker.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Process.  In other words, changes in his process over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Friedrich Hecker's satisfaction.  Only if Result replaced Process would Friedrich Hecker be satisfied.

Friedrich Hecker is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Fantasy.  At least, he would be able to if Experience didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Friedrich Hecker feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with How Things are Changing.  

In summary, Friedrich Hecker's primary Concern is a situation or environment:

so sehr mir Hecker gefiel, so wenig behagte mir sein Bescheid, und ich ließ deshalb meinen Unmut an dem ersten aus, der mir den Weg trat. Es war M. [33]
Wollt Ihr wirklich Nichts als eine badische Republik, sagt ich ihm, so mögt Ihr uns getrost ausschließen, denn welcher Mensch kann sich heutiges Tags dafür interessiren.
Wollt Ihr aber die Republick für ganz Deutschland, wo möglich für ganz Europa, und betrachtet wir dies stets von Hecker vorausgesetzt die badische nur als einen Anfang derselben, mit welchem Recht zögert Ihr da, die Mitwirkung Eurer Brüder und darunter Eurer besten Brüder laut zu begehren?
Bedenkt wohl, daß die Männer uns’rer Legion nur um mit Euch zu kämpfen die weite Reise unternommen, und daß sie auf den Barrikaden von Paris mitgefochten;

...regarding How Things are Changing:

considering the geopolitical situation: „Der andern Mächte! als wenn für Republikaner eine andere als die Volkssouverainität existire“ (27:21-23)

More specifically, he impacts the balance between Fact and Fantasy.  His primary influence is focused on Fact As a result, issues regarding Fantasy arise.  As Friedrich Hecker's impact grows, it tips the balance between Fact and Fantasy in the eyes of the other characters..  Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Process and his satisfaction with Result.  Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Fantasy, he is held back by an aspect of Experience.
______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for Searching for Utopia.



"Situation" as the Impact Character Throughline:  so sehr mir Hecker gefiel, so wenig behagte mir sein Bescheid, und ich ließ deshalb meinen Unmut an dem ersten aus, der mir den Weg trat. Es war M. [33]
Wollt Ihr wirklich Nichts als eine badische Republik, sagt ich ihm, so mögt Ihr uns getrost ausschließen, denn welcher Mensch kann sich heutiges Tags dafür interessiren.
Wollt Ihr aber die Republick für ganz Deutschland, wo möglich für ganz Europa, und betrachtet wir dies stets von Hecker vorausgesetzt die badische nur als einen Anfang derselben, mit welchem Recht zögert Ihr da, die Mitwirkung Eurer Brüder und darunter Eurer besten Brüder laut zu begehren?
Bedenkt wohl, daß die Männer uns’rer Legion nur um mit Euch zu kämpfen die weite Reise unternommen, und daß sie auf den Barrikaden von Paris mitgefochten;


"How Things are Changing" as the Impact Character Concern:  considering the geopolitical situation: „Der andern Mächte! als wenn für Republikaner eine andere als die Volkssouverainität existire“ (27:21-23)


"Fact" as the Impact Character Issue:  

"Process" as the Impact Character Problem:  

"Result" as the Impact Character Solution:  

"Cause" as the Impact Character Symptom:  

"Effect" as the Impact Character Response:  

"Fantasy" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  

"Experience" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  

"The Future" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  



