Overall Story Plot Report


Story Points for "Searching for Utopia"

In "Searching for Utopia," the Goal is Playing a Role.  Some of the Overall characters are for the Goal, while others are against it.  Regardless, before Playing a Role can be achieved, certain Requirements must be met.  These Requirements all involve Changing One's Nature in one way or another.  As a result, although the Overall characters are all concerned with Playing a Role they spend most of their time concentrating on Changing One's Nature as the means of achieving it or the best place to prevent it, depending upon their point of view.

Just as the Goal depends upon Requirements, Requirements depend up Prerequisites.  In "Searching for Utopia," these Prerequisites all have to do with Obtaining.  In other words, only though progress in Obtaining will Requirements of Changing One's Nature be met, clearing the way toward Playing a Role.

What if the Goal is not achieved?  The alternative is the Consequence.  The Consequence may appear to be positive or negative, depending upon which side of the Goal one is on.  In "Searching for Utopia," this Consequence involves Doing.  Something to do with Doing then will happen if a Goal regarding Playing a Role is not achieved.

The audience can judge progress toward the Goal by the number of Requirements that are met.  Indications that the Consequence is becoming more imminent is provided by Forewarnings.  In "Searching for Utopia," changes in Innermost Desires act as indicators that the Consequence is drawing near.

Just as Prerequisites provide the groundwork necessary to meet the Requirements, Preconditions set the stage for the advent of Forewarnings.  So, in "Searching for Utopia," Forewarnings in the form of Innermost Desires are preceded by Preconditions of The Future.  A sure way to tell a Prerequisite from a Precondition is that Prerequisites are an essential part of the effort toward the Goal, while Preconditions are only made essential due to someone's insistence that the conditions be met.

While all this effort is going on, certain Costs are incurred and Dividends accrued that make the effort all that more draining or rewarding.  In "Searching for Utopia," Costs involve How Things are Changing, while Dividends are found in Impulsive Responses.

In summary, "Searching for Utopia" concerns a Goal regarding Playing a Role:

Die Freiheit bricht sich Bahn, und die Thyrannei selbst ist verdammt ihr durch blinden Widerstand Bahn brechen zu helfen und ihr Verbündeter zu werden. – 
...
Wie groß und schwierig auch immer unsere Aufgabe ist, wir fühlen die Kraft mit der Arbeit wachsen.
Erhalte nur Du deine Freiheit – das Einzige was der Erhaltung wert ist.

...which Requires progress to be made in Changing One's Nature.  If the Goal is not achieved, a Consequence regarding Doing will transpire.  The imminent approach of the Consequence is gauged by instances or degrees of Innermost Desires, which come when Preconditions of The Future exist.  The Future is not intrinsically essential to progress toward the goal (essential Prerequisites pertain to Obtaining) but are made essential by someone's insistence.  As a result of these efforts, Costs involving How Things are Changing are incurred, while Dividends are found in Impulsive Responses.

