Plot Dynamics Report for "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel"

In terms of plot dynamics, "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel" is a story driven by Action.  This does not necessarily mean that the focus of the plot is about Actions occurring, but rather that the plot is driven forward by Actions.  In other words, when Actions are taken it forces the Overall characters to deliberate and ultimately decide.  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," these decisions would never be made if Actions had not been taken.  So, in short, it is a causal relationship that exists: Actions force decisions.

In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," the plot reaches a climax because the Overall characters run out of options.  This is called an Optionlock, which means that the tension of the plot is not created by a ticking clock but the closing down of options.  When all the options are gone, the climax (or moment of truth) is reached.

What happens at that moment of truth?  Do the Overall characters achieve what they set out to achieve?  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," the efforts of the Overall characters ultimately result in Failure.  Of course, there are characters both for and against the effort to achieve the goal, and the audience might be rooting for either side.  Therefore it is important to realize that Failure does not necessarily mean the audience will be pleased with the outcome.  In fact, if the goal is seen as a negative thing, the audience might very well be rooting for failure.  Still, since the goal is NOT achieved in "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," the efforts of those for the goal meet with Failure.

But what about main character's personal problems?  Once Failure has occurred, is the main character satisfied as well?  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," plot dynamics indicate that not only does the effort to achieve the goal meets with Failure, but this is unfavorable in context of the main character and therefore seen as Bad.

In summary, the plot dynamics of "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel" indicate that the plot is driven by Actions which force decisions to be taken:

As soon as Bernhard starts his position in the parish of Pfäffikon, he has to help resolving the peoples problems after a great fire.
When the conflict around Strauss is growing, he feels propelled to accept the leadership of the troops.
When the rumours about "foreing troops" become dangerously serious, he feels he must ring the bells.
When the Dragoner start atacking the rural people, he motivates them to go forward.
When a young girl (Marie) falls in love with her, he engages in this love relationship without considerations of the consequences.
When everything seems to become more complicated, he feels that he can only give up, and takes his life.

This drive forces the plot to a climax when all Options have been exhausted:

Bernhard has only a limited number of options to overcome the effects of society's pressure on him.
He tries to adapt, changes his goals, even though this requires limiting his economic resources.
He relies on the parents economic resources.
He finds relieve in carnal love, and romantic love experiences.
He engages in actions which are honoured by the "love of the people".
He is not able to overcome his ideals for pragmatic reasons, he cannot compromise on this.

In the end, the efforts to achieve the goal meet with Failure:

The Putsch should defend the peoples will. Seen under this aspect it was a success and Bernhard affirms that he would do so again. Bernhard is able to contribute to the will of the people in a decisive moment in the history of Zürich and all Switzerland. But at the end he is not honoured but blamed for it because he does not manage his image will, and underestimates the force of opponents. He neither recognizes the real demands of the people, theirfore their original support becomes more and more split.

...which is seen as a Bad outcome in terms of the main character's problems:

All his efforts have brought no result. Whatever he does, he makes things only worse.



