"Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel"

Chapter #1 - Bernhard writing a letter to Bluntschli

Bernhard writes a letter to Bluntschli, informing about his decision to suicied and justifying this action as a rational one.
He uses this occasion to review his whole lifestory and to honour his friendship with Bluntschli.

Chapter #2 - A renound family

Berhard remembers the great times of his family and the country, when there where still great men. This has changed since the French Revolution.
The number of talentful man grows, what alerts of a soon decay.

Chapter #3 - The becoming of his father

Bernhard remembers stories about his father's childhood.
There is already a conflict between his father and his grand-father. The father has a pragmatic, economic interest, the grand-father preferes an office in the state, military or similar.
Hes fathers was not well educated and coarsen by the lack of fatherly care and understanding.
A convenience marriage would even make things worse.
 

Chapter #4 - Unhappy home

The marriage of his parents is unhappy, even brutal.
A lustful, irresponsible mother and a drunk, gambling father.
The father abuses of his oldest son and neglects the needs of Bernhard.
The existence of a daughter is silenced in the story.

Chapter #5 - The mother

Magaretha Bürkli

Chapter #6 - The brother

Johannes Hirzel

Chapter #7 - Justification for relevance of family background

Why telling this story?

Chapter #8 - Mission 1: change the mother

Bernhard tries to convince his mother to changer her immoral behavior.

Chapter #9 - Berhard' studies beginning love for books

Chapter #10 - Bernhard's own sensuality

First erotic experiences

Chapter #11 - Science a new love

Bernhard studies and finds good teachers who motivate academic ambition as a catalysator of his unhappiness and give him a purpose in life.
The ideal world becomes a central role.

Chapter #12 - The confirmation day

The father gets angry seing mother and son praying.

Chapter #13 - The father's venerance to money

The father cannot convince the mother to give up her lover and concludes that the only valuable thing in life is money.

Chapter #14 - The innocent sacrifice

Bernhard makes Bluntschli understand that this background was the cause of the later situation. He wished to change things through his sacrifice.

Chapter #15 - Marie from Augsburg

Bernhard falls in love with Marie from Augsburg. But he finds out that his friend Johann Jakob Horner is also in love with her.
Therefore, he forces himself to love Marie's sister, who is four years older than Bernhard. He recognizes that this is not the right thing to do and theirfore has no sexual relation with this girl.

Chapter #16 - Death of the grandmother

The death of the grand-mother has great impact on Bernhard. He swears to vengance her.

Chapter #17 - 19 years old

The 19th year of Bernhard's life seems meaningless to him. This rounded up by the premunition by some friend who tells him that he might become a devil.

Chapter #18 - Bernhard's marriage

Again Bernhard falls in love, but the girl, later Mrs. Srpüngli-Tobler is already promissed to another. Therefore, he conforms with the sister. 
This marriage is completly incompatible. 
Soon, the wife finds out that his best friend is the Bluntschli, a family wich has great conflict with the Toblers.
When Bluntschli invites Berhanrd and Elise Tobler to his home, short before Bluntschli's marriage, the situation escalates.
Bernhards takes party for Bluntschli and Elise will not forgive him.

Chapter #19 - Academic life (21-23 years)

He tells about his studies at the university and in Berlin.
The "love" protects him from lust.

Chapter #20 - Economics forces over love

The family Tobler goes bankrupt. For that reason Bernhard feels that he could not solve his fiance with Elise.
He thinks that he would have been more succesful in his academic life without his wife.
He rejects accusations for having spent much money at the university.

Chapter #21 - Marriage, life in Enge

Father gives not sufficient economic support to Bernhard, according Berhard.
Bad start for the marriage, economic income of Bernhard is not enough.

Chapter #22 - Honeymoon

During the honeymoon in Mannheim, his wife becomes an epileptic attack. He stumbles over her.
She will use this incident against him.

Chapter #23 - Elise Tobler

She is cool and distant.
She detests disorder, thoughtlessness and erotic demands in Bernhard.
"Hits" Bernhard with a stocking in 1837.
Opposes against the divorce.

Chapter #24 - Misunderstanding about Mrs. Briel

Discovers a suspicious letter in Bernhards clothes.

She uses this against him later in her divorce.

Chapter #25 - Turn: beginning of desaster

Illness in 1835, 1843 Samenfluss
implication of cousin Muralt cause by haemorrhoides.

Chapter #26 - Application for the position as parish

Bernhard applies for a position in Pfäffkon as parish. 
He tries to fulfil his role, his compromise,
He recognizes this later as a mistake.

Chapter #27 - The maiden M.H.

Due to his wifes moodiness, Bernhard acompagnies a maiden (later known as M.H. ) to by some stuff for the house in Zürich.
The start an affair.

Chapter #28 - Start in Pfäffikon

Even the father gives him some money for the start in Pfäffikon, but Bernhard is not satisfied because it is "only" a credit.
The more, Bernhard feels lifted up by the institution ceremonial.

Chapter #29 - The brand of Pfäffikon.

Bernhard is very busy in supporting an councelling people after the brand of Pfäffikon.

Chapter #30 - Maiden M. H. expects a child

Maiden M.H. expects a child. 
According Bernhard, she is an publicly known whore and the child is not from him, but he pays anyway for the costs.

Chapter #31 - Brother Johannes returns from Russia

Borther Johannes returns from Russia and is hired for services in the Napolionic Army, as a common soldier.
The father does not want to pay for the position of an Offizier.
Therefore, pays Bernhard.

Chapter #32 - Threats as reaction to the affair with M.H.

Bernhard is threatened due to the story with M.H.
He is slowly increasing his depts.
He suffers anxiety.
But he never takes money from the church.

Chapter #33 - Bernhard's effort to defend his cause

Bernhard's effort to defend his cause against Grossrat Zimmermann in 1839 and 1842.
This causes further costs.
But he justifies this.
Did he consider his role as "Hausvater"?
Who is willing to sacrifice his life, also sacrifices his money, for the ideal.

Chapter #34 - Return to science

Bernhard dedicates his efforts to the academic life and his role as parish.

Chapter #35 - The stinky maiden

Bernhard and his wife had a stinky maide, whon in 1842 accuses him for an affair from which a pregnancy results.
She manages, throught the manipulation of Bernhard's borther and parents to force him to pay.
This payment is interpreted by the people as recognition of guilt for indecent behavior and makes his position as parish in Pfäffikon impossible.
But Bernhard is thoughtless and stays there.

Chapter #36 - a beautiful maiden

1843. A new maiden, enters the household. Elise Tobler travels for six month to Tirol.
Bernhard starts a love affair with her.
She becomes pregnant and the rumouring starts even earlier.
It gives a scandal when his wife returns from Tirol.
He pays for all the costs of the birth of the little boy Albert. The child later dies early.
The maiden finds a husband and gets married.
More depts.

Chapter #37 - "last act" Rösli

After he has to leave Pfäffikon, Bernhard falls into a depression. The accusations, persecutions, threats and rumours...
He invites his wife to return, but she rejects...
So he starts a love affair with the maiden Rösli.
But Rösli just plays with him.

Chapter #38 - the 17-years old Anna H.

Upset with Rösli, he starts another affair with the 17-year old sister of the "beautiful Maiden", called Anna H., who had born little Albert.

Since Albert is in bad condition, health, he justifies his affair with the need for a heir.
He makes a deal with the parents of the young girl.

He sends her to a tailer apprentiship.
She becomes Bleichsucht and Bernhard pays for her treatment.

Chapter #39 - my grates fight, my greatest guilt

Bernhard meets Marie Welti, falls in love and starts parallel to Anna a love affair with her.

Chapter #40 - Marie Welti

Bernhard describes Marie Welti

Chapter #41 - A decision

Bernhard tells Marie the truth and decides to stay only with her.
She accepts to his surprise.
The relation with Anna is resolved.

Chapter #42 - Money issues

Für meinen Bruder kaufte ich, um denselben vom Wortzeichen zu befreien, von Büchsenmacher mehrere Wechsel im Wert von circa 1100 fl
but the brother looses the money

Bernhard makes a financial balance of his life...

"Denn tausendmal lieber liesse ich mich töten als mir die Ehre rauben; "

Chapter #43 - Sekundarschul affair 

"gegenwärtige Katastrophe"
 
cancells a credit for 1846
makes trip, visits Anna

becomes a bad leg and cannot travel home
is delayed and loses the credit
his household is seized

Chapter #44 - escape from home

now he tries to leave home, but how?
Marie takes him home and sells her gifts to support him economically.
Bernhard accepts her help.

Chapter #45 - monologue

5-6 weeks after Bernhard has written the above he retakes the writing of the letter.
He believes, that during theses 5-6 weeks there was a hope for positive change, that is now almost destroyed.
His father managed to destroy all his credit.
He falls in depressive reflectios.

Chapter #46 - Outlook to Maya

Bernhard believes to have failed all over.
He only sees one option, to fulfil his original promise to give himself as sacrifice in order to redeme the family curse in a honour suicide.
A rational decision for the good, i.e. based on virtue.