Overall Story Plot Report


Story Points for "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel"

In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," the Goal is The Past.  Some of the Overall characters are for the Goal, while others are against it.  Regardless, before The Past can be achieved, certain Requirements must be met.  These Requirements all involve The Present in one way or another.  As a result, although the Overall characters are all concerned with The Past they spend most of their time concentrating on The Present as the means of achieving it or the best place to prevent it, depending upon their point of view.

Just as the Goal depends upon Requirements, Requirements depend up Prerequisites.  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," these Prerequisites all have to do with Contemplation.  In other words, only though progress in Contemplation will Requirements of The Present be met, clearing the way toward The Past.

What if the Goal is not achieved?  The alternative is the Consequence.  The Consequence may appear to be positive or negative, depending upon which side of the Goal one is on.  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," this Consequence involves Memories.  Something to do with Memories then will happen if a Goal regarding The Past is not achieved.

The audience can judge progress toward the Goal by the number of Requirements that are met.  Indications that the Consequence is becoming more imminent is provided by Forewarnings.  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," changes in Gathering Information act as indicators that the Consequence is drawing near.

Just as Prerequisites provide the groundwork necessary to meet the Requirements, Preconditions set the stage for the advent of Forewarnings.  So, in "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," Forewarnings in the form of Gathering Information are preceded by Preconditions of Conceiving an Idea.  A sure way to tell a Prerequisite from a Precondition is that Prerequisites are an essential part of the effort toward the Goal, while Preconditions are only made essential due to someone's insistence that the conditions be met.

While all this effort is going on, certain Costs are incurred and Dividends accrued that make the effort all that more draining or rewarding.  In "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel," Costs involve Developing a Plan, while Dividends are found in Understanding.

In summary, "Züriputsch by Bernhard Hirzel" concerns a Goal regarding The Past:

The goal is to keep to the covenant, to find redemption after the covenant has been broken by the French Revolution. 
Progress and the overcoming of the "curse".

...which Requires progress to be made in The Present:

The world is graceless place, and it is not worth spoiling one's self by remaining there...

If the Goal is not achieved, a Consequence regarding Memories will transpire:

Bernhard remains in his haunted memories and is not able to see them from a different angle, for example empathising with his father.

The imminent approach of the Consequence is gauged by instances or degrees of Gathering Information:

Neither the materialist solution of his father and the radical liberals, nor the self-sacrificing ideology of folk spirituality meet Bernhards vision of Divine Liberty. There must be something good in mankind that can enter into encounter with the Divine. He seeks it in death. He canot see, that he could have found it in the encounter with the radical otherness of his contemporaries.

...which come when Preconditions of Conceiving an Idea exist:

Bernhard concludes that he failed the test and has to pay with his life in order to remove the curse.

Conceiving an Idea is not intrinsically essential to progress toward the goal (essential Prerequisites pertain to Contemplation):

Suffering and failure have no place in Bernhard's metaphysic. Honour suicide is the sole response.

...but are made essential by someone's insistence.  As a result of these efforts, Costs involving Developing a Plan are incurred:

Bernhard is decided to become different from his father, he doesn't realise that he IS already different and that money is not the true problem of his father but the lack of acceptance (love). Finally, Bernhard pay his plan by being equally obsessed by money (due to its notorious lack) like his father.

...while Dividends are found in Understanding:

There is no real growth in the character of Bernhard. He sees people in a similar functional manner like his father, just in a more romantic way. Real encounter cannot even be realized in his relationship with Marie Welti. For Bernhard the world remains a place in which he doesn't fit and that is somehow not working well.



