Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

The Overall Story of "Your Story" takes place in the Manipulation Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with a manner of thinking or demeanor.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Playing a Role.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with a manner of thinking or demeanor pertaining to Playing a Role.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Playing a Role with Desire while others respond with Ability.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Playing a Role with Desire or Ability by illustrating their effects on Thought and Knowledge.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "Your Story," some see Expectation as causing the problem and Determination as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Test is at the heart of the problem and Trust will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Desire vs. Ability as an approach with Determination or Trust as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "Your Story," Thought is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "Your Story" this Inhibitor is Wisdom.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Playing a Role, Thought and Wisdom provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "Your Story," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Changing One's Nature.

In summary, the Overall problem in "Your Story" resides in a manner of thinking or demeanor pertaining to Playing a Role.  Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Playing a Role, they differ in approach:  some responding with Desire and others with Ability.  The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Desire and Ability.  The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Thought and Knowledge.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Expectation as the problem and Determination the best solution, others find Test at the heart of the problem and Trust the best way to resolve it.  These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Thought, and held back by Wisdom, while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Changing One's Nature.  
______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Manipulation" as the Overall Story Throughline:  

"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Concern:  

"Desire" as the Overall Story Issue:  

"Expectation" as the Overall Story Problem:  

"Determination" as the Overall Story Solution:  

"Test" as the Overall Story Symptom:  

"Trust" as the Overall Story Response:  

"Thought" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  

"Wisdom" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  



Additional Overall Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Goal:  

"Doing" as the Overall Story Consequence:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Cost:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Overall Story Dividend:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Requirement:  

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  

"The Future" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  



Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein, these value judgments center on Experience.  The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "Your Story," this alternative value standard examines Skill.  Conflicts occur between Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein in regards to the relative value of Experience vs. Skill.  It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "Your Story" the author's views can be explored in terms of Experience vs. Skill.  Although Experience and Skill describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "Your Story," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Experience and Skill in terms of the contrast in enlightenments and wisdoms between Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein.

For most of the story, Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein may spend a good deal of their time focusing on being inaccurate.  Although they will both agree that being inaccurate is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that being inaccurate is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that bringing within tolerance is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "Your Story" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "Your Story" this Catalyst is Enlightenment.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Enlightenment gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Experience and Enlightenment.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "Your Story" Knowledge serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Enlightenment and Knowledge that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Enlightenment (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Knowledge.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Enlightenment or Knowledge to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "Your Story" the growth between Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein is measured in terms of Obtaining.  What is obtained, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "Your Story" involves a divergence between Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein in terms of Experience vs. Skill.  The author takes sides by examining their enlightenments and wisdoms.  Still, Constantin Siegwart-Müller and Ulrich Ochsenbein spend most of their time focusing on being inaccurate.  The passionate argument is moved forward by Enlightenment, held back by Knowledge, and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is obtained.  
______________________________

Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for Your Story.



"Activity" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  

"Doing" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  

"Experience" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  

"Expectation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  

"Determination" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  

"Non-Accurate" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  

"Accurate" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  

"Enlightenment" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  

"Knowledge" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  

"Obtaining" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  



Main Character Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

In "Your Story," Constantin Siegwart-Müller's Throughline is a situation or environment.  In fact, Constantin Siegwart-Müller's Concerns revolve around a situation or environment of How Things are Changing.  This is not necessarily Constantin Siegwart-Müller's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as his primary Concern.  

Constantin Siegwart-Müller proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Threat, especially in reference to How Things are Changing.  In fact, when it comes to How Things are Changing, Constantin Siegwart-Müller often notices a disparity between Threat and Security that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of How Things are Changing through Constantin Siegwart-Müller's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Constantin Siegwart-Müller's motivation comes from an imbalance between Expectation and Determination.  Specifically, what pulls Constantin Siegwart-Müller forward through the story is a deficiency of Expectation.

Unfortunately, Constantin Siegwart-Müller's lack of Expectation is what gets him into trouble.  In fact, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  Only if Constantin Siegwart-Müller comes to realize that it is his own deficiency of Expectation that is causing all the problems will he be able to set things right.  The question is, will he see this before his options run out?

What holds Constantin Siegwart-Müller back is that his focus is elsewhere.  Constantin Siegwart-Müller doesn't see the problem to be in himself.  Rather, he believes the problem to be Hunch and sees Theory as the solution.  As a result, Constantin Siegwart-Müller might never come to understand that he holds the key to solving the problem unless he is forced by circumstance to address the issue.

Although Constantin Siegwart-Müller is not comfortable with the approach toward the goal regarding Playing a Role that everyone seems concerned with, he finds himself dragged along on the quest because of his Abilities in the area of Fantasy.  Actually, Constantin Siegwart-Müller is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why he cannot avoid participating in the quest where he begins to see that he holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Constantin Siegwart-Müller's Unique Ability of Fantasy can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, his use of Fantasy is undermined by an aspect of Value which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to his effectiveness varies as Constantin Siegwart-Müller grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Constantin Siegwart-Müller can overcome his Value and effectively rely on Fantasy, he may be able to address the fact that he has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Fantasy and Value causes both growth and backsliding in Constantin Siegwart-Müller, as evidenced by his varying degree of The Future.

In summary, a situation or environment is the realm in which Constantin Siegwart-Müller primarily operates, especially in regard to How Things are Changing, which is his chief Concern.  As an individual, Constantin Siegwart-Müller is focused on issues involving Threat more than most, which makes him responsive to issues regarding Security.  He often perceives a disparity between Threat and Security.  Constantin Siegwart-Müller is driven by a deficiency of Expectation, which causes him to see Hunch as the source of his problems and Theory as the best solution.  In fact, Constantin Siegwart-Müller's own lack of Expectation is what prevents the story's problem from being resolved.  Constantin Siegwart-Müller is given the opportunity to see this as he becomes wholly involved with the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Constantin Siegwart-Müller's Unique Ability pertaining to Fantasy that holds the means to resolving the story's problem.  Unfortunately, his effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Value.  Over the course of the story Constantin Siegwart-Müller's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which he engages in The Future.
______________________________

Main Character Illustrations for Your Story.



"Situation" as the Main Character Throughline:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Main Character Concern:  

"Threat" as the Main Character Issue:  

"Expectation" as the Main Character Problem:  

"Determination" as the Main Character Solution:  

"Hunch" as the Main Character Symptom:  

"Theory" as the Main Character Response:  

"Fantasy" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  

"Value" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  

"The Future" as the Main Character Benchmark:  



Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "Your Story"

In "Your Story," Ulrich Ochsenbein is the impact character, meaning that we see Ulrich Ochsenbein as the primary influence on Constantin Siegwart-Müller's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Constantin Siegwart-Müller is on the wrong path, and Ulrich Ochsenbein pressures him to take a better approach.  As a Fixed Attitude character, Ulrich Ochsenbein works through adopting an attitude.  

With regard to that "state of mind", Ulrich Ochsenbein is primarily Concerned with Impulsive Responses, especially in terms of Worry.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Worry and Confidence that is most exemplified by Ulrich Ochsenbein.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Theory.  In other words, changes in his theory over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Ulrich Ochsenbein's satisfaction.  Only if Hunch replaced Theory would Ulrich Ochsenbein be satisfied.

Ulrich Ochsenbein is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Worth.  At least, he would be able to if Fact didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Ulrich Ochsenbein feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with Impulsive Responses.  

In summary, Ulrich Ochsenbein's primary Concern is a fixed attitude or outlook regarding Impulsive Responses.  More specifically, he impacts the balance between Worry and Confidence.  His primary influence is focused on Worry As a result, issues regarding Confidence arise.  As Ulrich Ochsenbein's impact grows, it tips the balance between Worry and Confidence in the eyes of the other characters..  Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Theory and his satisfaction with Hunch.  Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Worth, he is held back by an aspect of Fact.
______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for Your Story.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Impact Character Throughline:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Impact Character Concern:  

"Worry" as the Impact Character Issue:  

"Theory" as the Impact Character Problem:  

"Hunch" as the Impact Character Solution:  

"Test" as the Impact Character Symptom:  

"Trust" as the Impact Character Response:  

"Worth" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  

"Fact" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  



