Plot Dynamics Report for "Your Story"

In terms of plot dynamics, "Your Story" is a story driven by Decision.  This does not necessarily mean that the focus of the plot is about Decisions occurring, but rather that the plot is driven forward by Decisions.  In other words, when Decisions are made it forces the Overall characters to respond and ultimately take action.  In "Your Story," these actions would never be taken if Decisions had not been made.  So, in short, it is a causal relationship that exists: Decisions force actions.

In "Your Story," the plot reaches a climax because the Overall characters run out of options.  This is called an Optionlock, which means that the tension of the plot is not created by a ticking clock but the closing down of options.  When all the options are gone, the climax (or moment of truth) is reached.

What happens at that moment of truth?  Do the Overall characters achieve what they set out to achieve?  In "Your Story," the efforts of the Overall characters ultimately result in Failure.  Of course, there are characters both for and against the effort to achieve the goal, and the audience might be rooting for either side.  Therefore it is important to realize that Failure does not necessarily mean the audience will be pleased with the outcome.  In fact, if the goal is seen as a negative thing, the audience might very well be rooting for failure.  Still, since the goal is NOT achieved in "Your Story," the efforts of those for the goal meet with Failure.

But what about main character's personal problems?  Once Failure has occurred, is the main character satisfied as well?  In "Your Story," plot dynamics indicate that although the effort to achieve the goal meets with Failure, this is favorable in context of the main character and therefore seen as Good.

In summary, the plot dynamics of "Your Story" indicate that the plot is driven by Decisions which force actions to be made.  This drive forces the plot to a climax when all Options have been exhausted.  In the end, the efforts to achieve the goal meet with Failure, which is seen as a Good outcome in terms of the main character's problems.

