Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "Meta Heusser's story"

The Overall Story of "Meta Heusser's story" takes place in the Fixed Attitude Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with a fixed attitude or outlook.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Innermost Desires.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with a fixed attitude or outlook pertaining to Innermost Desires.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Innermost Desires with Denial while others respond with Closure.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Innermost Desires with Denial or Closure by illustrating their effects on Dream and Hope.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "Meta Heusser's story," some see Conscience as causing the problem and Temptation as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Help is at the heart of the problem and Hinder will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Denial vs. Closure as an approach with Temptation or Hinder as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "Meta Heusser's story," Hope is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "Meta Heusser's story" this Inhibitor is Choice.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Innermost Desires, Hope and Choice provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "Meta Heusser's story," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses.

In summary, the Overall problem in "Meta Heusser's story" resides in a fixed attitude or outlook pertaining to Innermost Desires.  Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Innermost Desires, they differ in approach:  some responding with Denial and others with Closure.  The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Denial and Closure.  The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Dream and Hope.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Conscience as the problem and Temptation the best solution, others find Help at the heart of the problem and Hinder the best way to resolve it.  These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Hope, and held back by Choice, while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Impulsive Responses.  
______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for Meta Heusser's story.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Overall Story Throughline:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Concern:  

"Denial" as the Overall Story Issue:  

"Conscience" as the Overall Story Problem:  

"Temptation" as the Overall Story Solution:  

"Help" as the Overall Story Symptom:  

"Hinder" as the Overall Story Response:  

"Hope" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  

"Choice" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  



Additional Overall Story Illustrations for Meta Heusser's story.



"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Goal:  

"The Future" as the Overall Story Consequence:  

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Cost:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Dividend:  

"Impulsive Responses" as the Overall Story Requirement:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  

"Doing" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  

"Playing a Role" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  



Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "Meta Heusser's story"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld, these value judgments center on Preconception.  The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "Meta Heusser's story," this alternative value standard examines Openness.  Conflicts occur between Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld in regards to the relative value of Preconception vs. Openness.  It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "Meta Heusser's story" the author's views can be explored in terms of Preconception vs. Openness.  Although Preconception and Openness describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "Meta Heusser's story," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Preconception and Openness in terms of the contrast in choices and delays between Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld.

For most of the story, Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld may spend a good deal of their time focusing on helping.  Although they will both agree that helping is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that helping is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that hindering is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "Meta Heusser's story" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "Meta Heusser's story" this Catalyst is Delay.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Delay gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Preconception and Delay.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "Meta Heusser's story" Dream serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Delay and Dream that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Delay (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Dream.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Delay or Dream to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "Meta Heusser's story" the growth between Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld is measured in terms of How Things are Changing.  What is progressed, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "Meta Heusser's story" involves a divergence between Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld in terms of Preconception vs. Openness.  The author takes sides by examining their choices and delays.  Still, Meta Heusser-Schweizer and Huber im Feld spend most of their time focusing on helping.  The passionate argument is moved forward by Delay, held back by Dream, and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is progressed.  
______________________________

Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for Meta Heusser's story.



"Situation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  

"The Future" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  

"Preconception" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  

"Control" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  

"Uncontrolled" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  

"Help" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  

"Hinder" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  

"Delay" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  

"Dream" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  

"How Things are Changing" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  



Main Character Story Thematic Report for "Meta Heusser's story"

In "Meta Heusser's story," Meta Heusser-Schweizer's Throughline is a manner of thinking or demeanor.  In fact, Meta Heusser-Schweizer's Concerns revolve around a manner of thinking or demeanor of Changing One's Nature.  This is not necessarily Meta Heusser-Schweizer's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as her primary Concern.  

Meta Heusser-Schweizer proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Responsibility, especially in reference to Changing One's Nature.  In fact, when it comes to Changing One's Nature, Meta Heusser-Schweizer often notices a disparity between Responsibility and Commitment that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of Changing One's Nature through Meta Heusser-Schweizer's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Meta Heusser-Schweizer's motivation comes from an imbalance between Conscience and Temptation.  Specifically, what drives Meta Heusser-Schweizer forward through the story is an over abundance of Conscience.

Unfortunately, Meta Heusser-Schweizer's excess of Conscience is what gets her into trouble.  In fact, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  Only if Meta Heusser-Schweizer comes to realize that it is her own over abundance of Conscience that is causing all the problems will she be able to set things right.  The question is, will she see this before her options run out?

What holds Meta Heusser-Schweizer back is that her focus is elsewhere.  Meta Heusser-Schweizer doesn't see the problem to be in herself.  Rather, she believes the problem to be Control and sees Uncontrolled as the solution.  As a result, Meta Heusser-Schweizer might never come to understand that she holds the key to solving the problem unless she is forced by circumstance to address the issue.

Although Meta Heusser-Schweizer is not comfortable with the approach toward the goal regarding Innermost Desires that everyone seems concerned with, she finds herself dragged along on the quest because of her Abilities in the area of Commitment.  Actually, Meta Heusser-Schweizer is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why she cannot avoid participating in the quest where she begins to see that she holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Meta Heusser-Schweizer's Unique Ability of Commitment can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, her use of Commitment is undermined by an aspect of Morality which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to her effectiveness varies as Meta Heusser-Schweizer grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Meta Heusser-Schweizer can overcome her Morality and effectively rely on Commitment, she may be able to address the fact that she has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Commitment and Morality causes both growth and backsliding in Meta Heusser-Schweizer, as evidenced by her varying degree of Playing a Role.

In summary, a manner of thinking or demeanor is the realm in which Meta Heusser-Schweizer primarily operates, especially in regard to Changing One's Nature, which is her chief Concern.  As an individual, Meta Heusser-Schweizer is focused on issues involving Responsibility more than most, which makes her responsive to issues regarding Commitment.  She often perceives a disparity between Responsibility and Commitment.  Meta Heusser-Schweizer is driven by an over abundance of Conscience, which causes her to see Control as the source of her problems and Uncontrolled as the best solution.  In fact, Meta Heusser-Schweizer's own excess of Conscience is what prevents the story's problem from being resolved.  Meta Heusser-Schweizer is given the opportunity to see this as she becomes wholly involved with the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Meta Heusser-Schweizer's Unique Ability pertaining to Commitment that holds the means to resolving the story's problem.  Unfortunately, her effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Morality.  Over the course of the story Meta Heusser-Schweizer's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which she engages in Playing a Role.
______________________________

Main Character Illustrations for Meta Heusser's story.



"Manipulation" as the Main Character Throughline:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Main Character Concern:  

"Responsibility" as the Main Character Issue:  

"Conscience" as the Main Character Problem:  

"Temptation" as the Main Character Solution:  

"Control" as the Main Character Symptom:  

"Uncontrolled" as the Main Character Response:  

"Commitment" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  

"Morality" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  

"Playing a Role" as the Main Character Benchmark:  



Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "Meta Heusser's story"

In "Meta Heusser's story," Huber im Feld is the impact character, meaning that we see Huber im Feld as the primary influence on Meta Heusser-Schweizer's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Meta Heusser-Schweizer is on the wrong path, and Huber im Feld pressures her to take a better approach.  As a Activity character, Huber im Feld works by taking action.  

With regard to that "activity", Huber im Feld is primarily Concerned with Obtaining, especially in terms of Morality.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Morality and Self Interest that is most exemplified by Huber im Feld.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Support.  In other words, changes in his support over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Huber im Feld's satisfaction.  Only if Oppose replaced Support would Huber im Feld be satisfied.

Huber im Feld is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Self Interest.  At least, he would be able to if Responsibility didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Huber im Feld feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with Obtaining.  

In summary, Huber im Feld's primary Concern is an activity or endeavor regarding Obtaining.  More specifically, he impacts the balance between Morality and Self Interest.  His primary influence is focused on Morality As a result, issues regarding Self Interest arise.  As Huber im Feld's impact grows, it tips the balance between Morality and Self Interest in the eyes of the other characters..  Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Support and his satisfaction with Oppose.  Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Self Interest, he is held back by an aspect of Responsibility.
______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for Meta Heusser's story.



"Activity" as the Impact Character Throughline:  

"Obtaining" as the Impact Character Concern:  

"Morality" as the Impact Character Issue:  

"Support" as the Impact Character Problem:  

"Oppose" as the Impact Character Solution:  

"Help" as the Impact Character Symptom:  

"Hinder" as the Impact Character Response:  

"Self Interest" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  

"Responsibility" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  

"Doing" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  



