Plot Dynamics Report for "Meta Heusser's story"

In terms of plot dynamics, "Meta Heusser's story" is a story driven by Action.  This does not necessarily mean that the focus of the plot is about Actions occurring, but rather that the plot is driven forward by Actions.  In other words, when Actions are taken it forces the Overall characters to deliberate and ultimately decide.  In "Meta Heusser's story," these decisions would never be made if Actions had not been taken.  So, in short, it is a causal relationship that exists: Actions force decisions.

In "Meta Heusser's story," the plot reaches a climax because the Overall characters run out of options.  This is called an Optionlock, which means that the tension of the plot is not created by a ticking clock but the closing down of options.  When all the options are gone, the climax (or moment of truth) is reached.

What happens at that moment of truth?  Do the Overall characters achieve what they set out to achieve?  In "Meta Heusser's story," the efforts of the Overall characters ultimately result in Success.  Of course, there are characters both for and against the effort to achieve the goal, and the audience might be rooting for either side.  Therefore it is important to realize that Success does not necessarily mean the audience will be pleased with the outcome.  In fact, if the goal is seen as a negative thing, the audience might very well be rooting for failure.  Still, since the goal is achieved in "Meta Heusser's story," the efforts of those for the goal meet with Success.

But what about main character's personal problems?  Once Success has been achieved, is the main character satisfied as well?  In "Meta Heusser's story," plot dynamics indicate that not only does the effort to achieve the goal meets with Success, but this is favorable in context of the main character and therefore seen as Good.

In summary, the plot dynamics of "Meta Heusser's story" indicate that the plot is driven by Actions which force decisions to be taken.  This drive forces the plot to a climax when all Options have been exhausted.  In the end, the efforts to achieve the goal meet with Success, which is seen as a Good outcome in terms of the main character's problems.

