Four Througlines Themes Report

Overall Story Thematic Report for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

The Overall Story of "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" takes place in the Activity Throughline, indicating that the problem exists because there is something wrong with an activity or endeavor.  Additionally, the Overall characters are primarily Concerned with Obtaining.  So, putting it together, the Overall characters are concerned with an activity or endeavor pertaining to Obtaining.  Some of the Overall characters respond to Obtaining with Self Interest while others respond with Morality.  Since this is part of the rational argument, an author can examine the relative practicality of responding to Obtaining with Self Interest or Morality by illustrating their effects on Approach and Attitude.  

Just because characters happen to find themselves on the same side because they share a particular approach does not mean they can agree on the essential nature of the problem or the best solution.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," some see Control as causing the problem and Uncontrolled as the means to resolve it.  Others are convinced that Avoidance is at the heart of the problem and Pursuit will best solve it.

These two areas of disagreement (Self Interest vs. Morality as an approach with Uncontrolled or Pursuit as the solution) form four perspectives that conflict with each other over the course of the story.  Because they are so balanced, they tend to lock up like wrestlers and bring the plot to a halt.  Fortunately, like a referee, there is a Catalyst that moves in to break it up.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," Morality is the Catalyst that gets things moving again.  However, once moving, the plot tends to pick up too much speed, as if the accelerator pedal were stuck to the floor.  Once again, a force comes into play to regulate the speed.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" this Inhibitor is Commitment.  Any other means of arbitrating the speed of the plot might seem arbitrary.  However, because of their relationship to Obtaining, Morality and Commitment provide an author with unobtrusive tools to adjust the pacing of the story's progress.

Speed is one thing; distance to the destination is another.  That's where the Overall Story Benchmark comes into play.  The Benchmark serves as a yardstick providing milestones that tell an audience how far it is to the climax.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," distance to the goal is measured by changes in Gathering Information.

In summary, the Overall problem in "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" resides in an activity or endeavor pertaining to Obtaining.  Although the Overall characters share a Concern about Obtaining, they differ in approach:  some responding with Self Interest and others with Morality.  The relative value of the two approaches becomes evident in the conflicts that occur between Self Interest and Morality.  The relative practicality of both approaches is seen by how they each affect Approach and Attitude.  In addition, the Overall characters disagree on the true cause of the problem, and therefore on the appropriate solution.  While some see Control as the problem and Uncontrolled the best solution, others find Avoidance at the heart of the problem and Pursuit the best way to resolve it.  These perspectives come into conflicts that are moved forward by Morality, and held back by Commitment, while the distance to the goal is measured by changes in Gathering Information.  
______________________________
Overall Story Illustrations for Switzerland as a Direct Democracy.



"Activity" as the Overall Story Throughline:  

"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Concern:  

"Self Interest" as the Overall Story Issue:  

"Control" as the Overall Story Problem:  

"Uncontrolled" as the Overall Story Solution:  

"Avoidance" as the Overall Story Symptom:  

"Pursuit" as the Overall Story Response:  

"Morality" as the Overall Story Catalyst:  

"Commitment" as the Overall Story Inhibitor:  

"Gathering Information" as the Overall Story Benchmark:  



Additional Overall Story Illustrations for Switzerland as a Direct Democracy.



"Obtaining" as the Overall Story Goal:  The goal of the story was to mediate the tension between individual will and the will of others, between an abstract, universal goal and concrete, material achievements.

"Changing One's Nature" as the Overall Story Consequence:  A key to understanding the story, was that the opposition by others, even though a momentanous threat, was the real driver that finally brought things forward and led personal growth, balancing economic and spiritual goals.

"The Future" as the Overall Story Cost:  The price that had to be paid to leap the noetic tension was to delay the goals into the future. The radicals had to accept, that at the time being a completly free economically liberal state was not possible, due to the lack in personal growth of the society's members. The conservatives had to accept that a State of faith, was not possible at the current time, given that material (?) limitations of many people, did not allow them to understand the meaning of a "Kingdom of God".

The story told us, that such a goal will never achieved, that this future will always lay in the future.

"Innermost Desires" as the Overall Story Dividend:  Even though, it seemed that the goal will always lay in the future, its partial presence was a result of the constant effort to strive for it. Even though, the desired liberal state was not purely achieved, neither had Switzerland become a Kindgom of God on earth, it achieved to be more liberal than others and without sacrificing the purchase of divine laws.
In all its plurality (language, etnicity, faith, political orientation, social status and wealth), and changeability, they achieved a unique identity and a surprising persistence of their national myths.

"Gathering Information" as the Overall Story Requirement:  

"Conceiving an Idea" as the Overall Story Prerequisite:  

"The Present" as the Overall Story Preconditions:  

"Contemplation" as the Overall Story Forewarnings:  



Main vs. Impact Story Thematic Report for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

The Main vs. Impact Story theme places value judgments on the relationship between the Main and Impact Characters.  In the relationship between Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller, these value judgments center on Commitment.  The Main vs. Impact Story Counterpoint provides an alternative standard of values in contrast to the thematic focus.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," this alternative value standard examines Responsibility.  Conflicts occur between Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller in regards to the relative value of Commitment vs. Responsibility.  It is the passionate argument that presents the emotional case for the author's point of view.  In fact, this bias forms the heart of the thematic exploration.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" the author's views can be explored in terms of Commitment vs. Responsibility.  Although Commitment and Responsibility describe both sides of the thematic argument, as author, you will need to take one side over the other in order to make a thematic statement in the passionate argument.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," your point of view can be expressed by examining both Commitment and Responsibility in terms of the contrast in rationalizations and obligations between Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller.

For most of the story, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller may spend a good deal of their time focusing on avoiding.  Although they will both agree that avoiding is the primary area of friction between them, one will argue that avoiding is the way to resolve their personal problems, while the other will argue that pursuing is the way to go.

Having taken up sides on all of these issues, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller would simply sit on their own positions and the passionate argument of "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" would be reduced to a shouting match in which no progress is made toward a resolution.  However, there is another thematic aspect to the story that breaks the log jam and keeps the plot moving along.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" this Catalyst is Responsibility.  Any other way of moving the plot along might seem artificial, however every time Responsibility gets things moving, it somehow seems appropriate, due to the relationship between Commitment and Responsibility.

In contrast, if the plot moved forward without any resistance, the story would end before all sides of all issues could be explored.  That's why in "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" Self Interest serves to inhibit progress toward a solution.  It is the balance between Responsibility and Self Interest that determines how quickly the passionate argument will move forward.  In fact, in working with this story you can increase the pace toward the climax by adding in more Responsibility (or strengthening its presence) or slow down the story to linger at points of special interest by adding more Self Interest.  Even more variety can be achieved by lowering the presence of Responsibility or Self Interest to make the story move slower or faster, respectively.

Putting the items in place that will change the pace of a story makes an audience feel they are rushing, crawling or any speed in between on the way to the climax of the story.  In the Main vs. Impact Story, this climax is reached when the relationship between the Main and Impact characters grows to its maximum dimensions.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" the growth between Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller is measured in terms of Conceiving an Idea.  What is conceived, then, becomes the thematic yardstick that clues the audience in as to the distance to the climax of the passionate argument.

In summary, the Main vs. Impact Storyline of "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" involves a divergence between Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller in terms of Commitment vs. Responsibility.  The author takes sides by examining their rationalizations and obligations.  Still, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann and Constantin Siegwart-Müller spend most of their time focusing on avoiding.  The passionate argument is moved forward by Responsibility, held back by Self Interest, and the audience can measure progress toward the climax in terms of what is conceived.  
______________________________

Main vs. Impact Story Illustrations for Switzerland as a Direct Democracy.



"Manipulation" as the Main vs. Impact Story Throughline:  

"Changing One's Nature" as the Main vs. Impact Story Concern:  

"Commitment" as the Main vs. Impact Story Issue:  

"Faith" as the Main vs. Impact Story Problem:  Both Katharina Morel and Constantin Siegwart-Müller purchased liberty as a major goal in their personal life and politics.
On one hand Katharina More, represented the radical liberal ideals which were majorly concerned with economic liberalism and strived for representational governance.
On the other hand, Constantin Siegwart-Müller, usually associated to conservativism, represented those who did not only purchase an individual believe but uphold a faith in the church as an institution while at the same time favouring a direct democratic government of the State based on the decisions of each of its individual members.

Both also suffered from internal conflicts.
Katharina Morel experiecend how economic liberty was ephemera, all physical goods, including her life were under constant threat to disappear. At the end of her life she would be known for her carritative work and her role as a model, rather than for her power and sovereignty.

Constantin Siegwart-Müller had to struggle in order to balance the idea that the Constitution of the State should be based on the will of its individual members, while the Constitution of the Church was based on a Divine Command.

"Disbelief" as the Main vs. Impact Story Solution:  The position between the radicals and the conservatives, between the liberals who take economic growth and reputation as their prime measurement for success, and those who search for individual personal growth and strive for more transcendend goals, between those who support a centralized representative and federale governance and those who strive for decentralized, individual and associative governance remained in a tension.

"Avoidance" as the Main vs. Impact Story Symptom:  

"Pursuit" as the Main vs. Impact Story Response:  

"Responsibility" as the Main vs. Impact Story Catalyst:  

"Self Interest" as the Main vs. Impact Story Inhibitor:  

"Conceiving an Idea" as the Main vs. Impact Story Benchmark:  



Main Character Story Thematic Report for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's Throughline is a fixed attitude or outlook.  In fact, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's Concerns revolve around a fixed attitude or outlook of Innermost Desires.  This is not necessarily Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's goal (although it could be) but is better thought of as her primary Concern.  

Katharina Morel-Kaufmann proves to be sensitive to issues pertaining to Hope, especially in reference to Innermost Desires.  In fact, when it comes to Innermost Desires, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann often notices a disparity between Hope and Dream that others just don't see.  The audience, therefore, is provided a very personal commentary on the meaning of Innermost Desires through Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's perspective.

As the story develops we learn that Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's motivation comes from an imbalance between Control and Uncontrolled.  Specifically, what pulls Katharina Morel-Kaufmann forward through the story is a deficiency of Control.

Unfortunately, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's lack of Control is what gets her into trouble.  In fact, this imbalance causes trouble for everyone else as well.  Only if Katharina Morel-Kaufmann comes to realize that it is her own deficiency of Control that is causing all the problems will she be able to set things right.  The question is, will she see this before her options run out?

What holds Katharina Morel-Kaufmann back is that her focus is elsewhere.  Katharina Morel-Kaufmann doesn't see the problem to be in herself.  Rather, she believes the problem to be Feeling and sees Logic as the solution.  As a result, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann might never come to understand that she holds the key to solving the problem unless she is forced by circumstance to address the issue.

Although Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is also interested in working toward the goal regarding Obtaining that everyone seems concerned with, she finds herself indispensable on the quest because of her Abilities in the area of Dream.  Actually, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is Uniquely Able in this area, which is why she cannot resist participating in the quest where she begins to see that she holds the means to resolving the story's problems.

Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's Unique Ability of Dream can move the story toward a positive conclusion.  However, her use of Dream is undermined by an aspect of Delay which always seems to get in the way.  This resistance to her effectiveness varies as Katharina Morel-Kaufmann grows over the course of the story.  It becomes clear that when Katharina Morel-Kaufmann can overcome her Delay and effectively rely on Dream, she may be able to address the fact that she has the power to resolve the story's problems.  This tug of war between Dream and Delay causes both growth and backsliding in Katharina Morel-Kaufmann, as evidenced by her varying degree of Contemplation.

In summary, a fixed attitude or outlook is the realm in which Katharina Morel-Kaufmann primarily operates, especially in regard to Innermost Desires, which is her chief Concern.  As an individual, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is focused on issues involving Hope more than most, which makes her responsive to issues regarding Dream.  She often perceives a disparity between Hope and Dream.  Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is driven by a deficiency of Control:

Katharina Morel keept her books always diligently, tried to account for all her debts, even if they were not her fault. When problems came up, she tried to put hand on herself and to solve them.

Allready as a young girl, she was able to say clearly no to her early pretenders, and when she found the man she liked as her partner, she would fight to convince her in-laws and promote herself using skillfully the help of the priests and loyal family members.
During the Russian Campaign she dealt with everything she had to improve her situation.
Especially interesting was, how she insisted in finding and getting returned her lost horse.
She also hired a carriage to return to Switzerland.
In Maastrich, she could not simply accept to sell all her houshold and to remake her life elsewhere, which finally motivated her to hire a ship and manage the logistic for the Swiss Regiment.
Later in Luzern, as the wife of Joseph Morel, she supported actively the Volunteer movement belonging to the female volunteers called "Pepper Women" (Pfefferfrauen) and intervening in the liberation of Robert Steiger from the Tower of Luzern.
After her second husband's death, when she liquidated her his remaining debts she took herself on the role of a drappery dealer and travelled to sell the left overs.
When she opened her Pension Morel, she started a clever and skillful marketing campaign to promote her little pension.

In general, she new how to use material resources, skills, even her physical attractive and especially her social network in order to shape her life in the way she wanted it.

...which causes her to see Feeling as the source of her problems:

It seemed that Katharina Morel had a strong desire for personal liberty and autonomy. Whenever she felt that her sovereignty was threatened she would become immediatly active in order to remediate the situation and recover her former status.

...and Logic as the best solution.  In fact, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's own lack of Control is what prevents the story's problem from being resolved.  Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is given the opportunity to see this as she becomes wholly involved in the effort to achieve the goal.  It is Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's Unique Ability pertaining to Dream that holds the means to resolving the story's problem.  Unfortunately, her effectiveness is undermined by an aspect of Delay.  Over the course of the story Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's growth (and backsliding) in effectiveness can be seen in the degree to which she engages in Contemplation.
______________________________

Main Character Illustrations for Switzerland as a Direct Democracy.



"Fixed Attitude" as the Main Character Throughline:  

"Innermost Desires" as the Main Character Concern:  

"Hope" as the Main Character Issue:  

"Control" as the Main Character Problem:  Katharina Morel keept her books always diligently, tried to account for all her debts, even if they were not her fault. When problems came up, she tried to put hand on herself and to solve them.

Allready as a young girl, she was able to say clearly no to her early pretenders, and when she found the man she liked as her partner, she would fight to convince her in-laws and promote herself using skillfully the help of the priests and loyal family members.
During the Russian Campaign she dealt with everything she had to improve her situation.
Especially interesting was, how she insisted in finding and getting returned her lost horse.
She also hired a carriage to return to Switzerland.
In Maastrich, she could not simply accept to sell all her houshold and to remake her life elsewhere, which finally motivated her to hire a ship and manage the logistic for the Swiss Regiment.
Later in Luzern, as the wife of Joseph Morel, she supported actively the Volunteer movement belonging to the female volunteers called "Pepper Women" (Pfefferfrauen) and intervening in the liberation of Robert Steiger from the Tower of Luzern.
After her second husband's death, when she liquidated her his remaining debts she took herself on the role of a drappery dealer and travelled to sell the left overs.
When she opened her Pension Morel, she started a clever and skillful marketing campaign to promote her little pension.

In general, she new how to use material resources, skills, even her physical attractive and especially her social network in order to shape her life in the way she wanted it.



"Uncontrolled" as the Main Character Solution:  Katharina Morel's life was marked from a continous interruption by external chaos and sudden death.

Starting with the French soldiers, occupying her town during the French invasion in Luzern, the early loss of her mother. 
Once married, businesses did not go well, because the clients were not willing or able to pay, so that her first husband Heinrich Peyer chose to leave her for a military carrier, in which she would finally accompagny him.
The war plans of Napoleon brought them in the midst of the drama of the Russian campaign from which only a handful of persons returned.
Out of the chaos of war, returned to Luzern, her husband died soon and she married again with Joseph Morel, who drew her into the troubles of inheritance disputes. 
When he died a few years later, he left her with important economic debts.
One of her pretendends, her brother-in-law was killed due to the suitor's disputes.
Even at the hights of her carrier at the Schweizerhof, she could not stay calm. The owners suddenly decided to sell and she had to restart again, which she did with the Pension Morel.

"Feeling" as the Main Character Symptom:  It seemed that Katharina Morel had a strong desire for personal liberty and autonomy. Whenever she felt that her sovereignty was threatened she would become immediatly active in order to remediate the situation and recover her former status.

"Logic" as the Main Character Response:  

"Dream" as the Main Character Unique Ability:  

"Delay" as the Main Character Critical Flaw:  

"Contemplation" as the Main Character Benchmark:  



Impact Character Story Thematic Report for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," Constantin Siegwart-Müller is the impact character, meaning that we see Constantin Siegwart-Müller as the primary influence on Katharina Morel-Kaufmann's personal fulfillment.  In fact, Katharina Morel-Kaufmann is on the wrong path, and Constantin Siegwart-Müller pressures her to take a better approach.  As a Situation character, Constantin Siegwart-Müller works by changing the situation.  

With regard to that "situation", Constantin Siegwart-Müller is primarily Concerned with The Future, especially in terms of Delay.  In fact, it is the discrepancy between Delay and Choice that is most exemplified by Constantin Siegwart-Müller.  Driving a wedge between these two items is the source of his drive, which is Support.  In other words, changes in his support over the course of the story create direct responses in the level of Constantin Siegwart-Müller's satisfaction.  Only if Oppose replaced Support would Constantin Siegwart-Müller be satisfied.

Constantin Siegwart-Müller is uniquely able to pursue this course as a result of his association with Choice.  At least, he would be able to if Hope didn't always get in his way.  The frustrations Constantin Siegwart-Müller feels when he is held back only serve to increase the extent of his Concern with The Future.  

In summary, Constantin Siegwart-Müller's primary Concern is a situation or environment regarding The Future.  More specifically, he impacts the balance between Delay and Choice.  His primary influence is focused on Delay As a result, issues regarding Choice arise.  As Constantin Siegwart-Müller's impact grows, it tips the balance between Delay and Choice in the eyes of the other characters..  Affecting his impact are his drive regarding Support:

Constantin Siegwart-Müller was splitted into two by his desire for change and renewal, on the one hand, and by his believe in God and the (Catholic) faith, on the other hand.

...and his satisfaction with Oppose:

As his biographer Elisabeth Rüf said, he entered history not for his achievements but for the succesful management of his failures. 
Abuses and negative impacts on social politics by the radical liberals, to whome he belonged in the beginning made him return to his original faith. 
However, he remained true to the idea that the people themselves should decide on all political dicisions and where they might be unable to do so, because of a possible lack of knowledge or ethical integrity, he wagered for teaching them, instead of deciding on their behalf.
This resulted in a spiritual development in which his faith in the abstract idea of God as promoted by the radicals, returned to the relationship with a personal God and finally a true faith in the church as an institution that embodied God's presens among the people (p. 26).
At the end, his impact was decisive in the inclusion of the direct democratic elements in the political system of the Swiss Federal State.

Aided in this effort by his unique abilities in the area of Choice, he is held back by an aspect of Hope.
______________________________
Impact Character Illustrations for Switzerland as a Direct Democracy.



"Situation" as the Impact Character Throughline:  

"The Future" as the Impact Character Concern:  

"Delay" as the Impact Character Issue:  

"Support" as the Impact Character Problem:  Constantin Siegwart-Müller was splitted into two by his desire for change and renewal, on the one hand, and by his believe in God and the (Catholic) faith, on the other hand.

"Oppose" as the Impact Character Solution:  As his biographer Elisabeth Rüf said, he entered history not for his achievements but for the succesful management of his failures. 
Abuses and negative impacts on social politics by the radical liberals, to whome he belonged in the beginning made him return to his original faith. 
However, he remained true to the idea that the people themselves should decide on all political dicisions and where they might be unable to do so, because of a possible lack of knowledge or ethical integrity, he wagered for teaching them, instead of deciding on their behalf.
This resulted in a spiritual development in which his faith in the abstract idea of God as promoted by the radicals, returned to the relationship with a personal God and finally a true faith in the church as an institution that embodied God's presens among the people (p. 26).
At the end, his impact was decisive in the inclusion of the direct democratic elements in the political system of the Swiss Federal State.

"Avoidance" as the Impact Character Symptom:  

"Pursuit" as the Impact Character Response:  

"Choice" as the Impact Character Unique Ability:  

"Hope" as the Impact Character Critical Flaw:  

"The Present" as the Impact Character Benchmark:  



