Plot Dynamics Report for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

In terms of plot dynamics, "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" is a story driven by Decision.  This does not necessarily mean that the focus of the plot is about Decisions occurring, but rather that the plot is driven forward by Decisions.  In other words, when Decisions are made it forces the Overall characters to respond and ultimately take action.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," these actions would never be taken if Decisions had not been made.  So, in short, it is a causal relationship that exists: Decisions force actions.

In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," the plot reaches a climax because the Overall characters run out of options.  This is called an Optionlock, which means that the tension of the plot is not created by a ticking clock but the closing down of options.  When all the options are gone, the climax (or moment of truth) is reached.

What happens at that moment of truth?  Do the Overall characters achieve what they set out to achieve?  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," the efforts of the Overall characters ultimately result in Success.  Of course, there are characters both for and against the effort to achieve the goal, and the audience might be rooting for either side.  Therefore it is important to realize that Success does not necessarily mean the audience will be pleased with the outcome.  In fact, if the goal is seen as a negative thing, the audience might very well be rooting for failure.  Still, since the goal is achieved in "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," the efforts of those for the goal meet with Success.

But what about main character's personal problems?  Once Success has been achieved, is the main character satisfied as well?  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," plot dynamics indicate that not only does the effort to achieve the goal meets with Success, but this is favorable in context of the main character and therefore seen as Good.

In summary, the plot dynamics of "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" indicate that the plot is driven by Decisions which force actions to be made:

In both all cases, it was the decision to get involved, to commit to the goals of others, that forced the characters to take actions.

This drive forces the plot to a climax when all Options have been exhausted:

The various decisions to commit to mutually incompatible goals culminate in the Sonderbund war.
While the radicals try force a federal state by locking in individuals opposing their ideas with legalistic tools, and provoking the conservatives with violent actions in order to demonstrate their violent character, the conservatives intent to give weight to the "will of the people" by violent actions and impose their religious view through church control on the educational system.

In the end, the efforts to achieve the goal meet with Success:

At the end, neither a federal state in the classical liberal sense, nor a faith based community guided by a Rousseauian "will of the people" was achieved. 
But the Swiss people had learned to keep any form of foreign intereference appart, which led to a yet unknown level of sovereignty for Switzerland, and they had further learned to live with constant tensions finding constructive ways of settling thos conflicts.

True to the words of C. G. Jung:

""We (Swiss) came to the conclusion that it is better to avoid foreign wars, and so we went home and took the rag with us. In Switzerland, we have built the 'perfect democracy' where our warlike instincts can be lived out in form of domestic disputes, called 'political life'. We argue with each other within the limits of the law and the Constitution and tend to believe that democracy is a chronic condition of mitigated civil war. We are far from having peace among us: in the contrary, we hate and fight each other because we have managed to turn the war inside. Our peaceful conduct outward serves us only to keep our domestic quarrels undisturbed by foreign invaders... True democracy is a highly psychological institution taking the human nature into account and leaving room for the need ofconflict within their own national borders."

["We (Swiss) came to the conclusion that it is better to avoid foreign wars, and so we went home and took the rag with us. In Switzerland, we have built the 'perfect democracy' where our warlike instincts in can the form of domestic disputes, called 'political life', expend We argue with each other within the limits of the law and the Constitution and tend to believe that democracy is a chronic condition mitigated civil war, we are far from each other to have peace.. in contrary, we hate and fight each other because we have managed to turn the war inside. our peaceful conduct outward serves us only to our domestic quarrels from foreign invaders that might disturb us keep ... True democracy is a highly psychological means supporting human nature into account and the need for conflict within their own national borders leaves room " 

(in: "Aufsätze zur Zeitgeschichte", 1946; GW 10, S. 251 ff.)

...which is seen as a Good outcome in terms of the main character's problems:

Katharina Morel expressed in her own words that she had achieve much in her life, but yet could not stay quiet. This apparent contradiction was interpreted as the expression of accepting fully one's own innermost desire to shape the world and the live, while at the other side accepting one's limitation as a material, and theirfure, ephemeral existence. She managed to solve her tragic triad, the fear or opposition of death through her persistingly positive attitude which resulted in the achievement of economic wealth but also the recognition and great love of others. It could be said, she also achieved spiritual wealth.



