Overall Story Plot Report


Story Points for "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy"

In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," the Goal is Obtaining.  Some of the Overall characters are for the Goal, while others are against it.  Regardless, before Obtaining can be achieved, certain Requirements must be met.  These Requirements all involve Gathering Information in one way or another.  As a result, although the Overall characters are all concerned with Obtaining they spend most of their time concentrating on Gathering Information as the means of achieving it or the best place to prevent it, depending upon their point of view.

Just as the Goal depends upon Requirements, Requirements depend up Prerequisites.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," these Prerequisites all have to do with Conceiving an Idea.  In other words, only though progress in Conceiving an Idea will Requirements of Gathering Information be met, clearing the way toward Obtaining.

What if the Goal is not achieved?  The alternative is the Consequence.  The Consequence may appear to be positive or negative, depending upon which side of the Goal one is on.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," this Consequence involves Changing One's Nature.  Something to do with Changing One's Nature then will happen if a Goal regarding Obtaining is not achieved.

The audience can judge progress toward the Goal by the number of Requirements that are met.  Indications that the Consequence is becoming more imminent is provided by Forewarnings.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," changes in Contemplation act as indicators that the Consequence is drawing near.

Just as Prerequisites provide the groundwork necessary to meet the Requirements, Preconditions set the stage for the advent of Forewarnings.  So, in "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," Forewarnings in the form of Contemplation are preceded by Preconditions of The Present.  A sure way to tell a Prerequisite from a Precondition is that Prerequisites are an essential part of the effort toward the Goal, while Preconditions are only made essential due to someone's insistence that the conditions be met.

While all this effort is going on, certain Costs are incurred and Dividends accrued that make the effort all that more draining or rewarding.  In "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy," Costs involve The Future, while Dividends are found in Innermost Desires.

In summary, "Switzerland as a Direct Democracy" concerns a Goal regarding Obtaining:

The goal of the story was to mediate the tension between individual will and the will of others, between an abstract, universal goal and concrete, material achievements.

...which Requires progress to be made in Gathering Information.  If the Goal is not achieved, a Consequence regarding Changing One's Nature will transpire:

A key to understanding the story, was that the opposition by others, even though a momentanous threat, was the real driver that finally brought things forward and led personal growth, balancing economic and spiritual goals.

The imminent approach of the Consequence is gauged by instances or degrees of Contemplation, which come when Preconditions of The Present exist.  The Present is not intrinsically essential to progress toward the goal (essential Prerequisites pertain to Conceiving an Idea) but are made essential by someone's insistence.  As a result of these efforts, Costs involving The Future are incurred:

The price that had to be paid to leap the noetic tension was to delay the goals into the future. The radicals had to accept, that at the time being a completly free economically liberal state was not possible, due to the lack in personal growth of the society's members. The conservatives had to accept that a State of faith, was not possible at the current time, given that material (?) limitations of many people, did not allow them to understand the meaning of a "Kingdom of God".

The story told us, that such a goal will never achieved, that this future will always lay in the future.

...while Dividends are found in Innermost Desires:

Even though, it seemed that the goal will always lay in the future, its partial presence was a result of the constant effort to strive for it. Even though, the desired liberal state was not purely achieved, neither had Switzerland become a Kindgom of God on earth, it achieved to be more liberal than others and without sacrificing the purchase of divine laws.
In all its plurality (language, etnicity, faith, political orientation, social status and wealth), and changeability, they achieved a unique identity and a surprising persistence of their national myths.



